mit-media-object-based-media-1 | 3D Telepresence Chair | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:Daniel Novy An autostereoscopic (no glasses) 3D display engine is combined with a "Pepper's Ghost" setup to create an office chair that appears to contain a remote meeting participant. The system geometry is also suitable for other applications such as tabletop or automotive heads-up displays. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-2 | 4K Comics | http://novysan.com/4kcomics | description:V. Michael Bove and Daniel Novy 4K Comics applies the affordances of ultra-high-resolution screens to traditional print media such as comic books, graphic novels, and other sequential art forms. The comic panel becomes the entry point to the corresponding moment in the film adaptation, while scenes from the film indicate the source frames of the graphic novel. The relationship between comics, films, parodies, and other support materials can be navigated using native touch screens, gestures, or novel wireless control devices. Big data techniques are used to sift, store, and explore vast catalogs of long-running titles, enabling sharing and remixing among friends, fans, and collectors. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-3 | Aerial Volumetric Light-Field Display | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-object-based-media-3 Aerial Volumetric Light-Field Display | description:V. Michael Bove, Daniel Novy and Henry Holtzman - Samsung NExD Lab An aerial volumetric light-field display via holographic light-shaping diffuser, projector array, and sparse phase conjugate reflection.
mit-media-object-based-media-4 | Ambi-Blinds | http://fab.cba.mit.edu/classes/863.13/people/ermal/mas.863/final-project-ambilinds-sunlight-driven-automated-window-blinds/ | description:V. Michael Bove and Ermal Dreshaj Ambi-blinds are solar-powered, sunlight-driven window blinds. A reinvention of a common household item, Ambi-blinds use the level of sunlight striking the window to automatically control the tilt of the blinds, effectively controlling how much sunlight is cast into a room depending on the time of day. Sleep studies dictate that waking up with the sunlight regularly promotes wellness and quality of sleep, regulating our circadian rhythm throughout the day. By automatically regulating the user's exposure to sunlight, Ambi-blinds promote the well-being of the user in a non-invasive way, and close at night to allow for privacy. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-5 | BigBarChart | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-object-based-media-5 BigBarChart | description:V. Michael Bove and Laura Perovich BigBarChart is an immersive 3D bar chart that provides a new physical way for people to interact with data. It takes data beyond visualizations to map out a new area—data experiences—that are multisensory, embodied, and aesthetic interactions. BigBarChart is made up of a number of bars that extend up to 10 feet to create an immersive experience. Bars change height and color in response to interactions that are direct (a person entering the room), tangible (pushing down on a bar to get meta information), or digital (controlling bars and performing statistical analyses through a tablet). BigBarChart helps both scientists and the general public understand information from a new perspective. Early prototypes are available.
mit-media-object-based-media-6 | Bottles&Boxes: Packaging with Sensors | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:Ermal Dreshaj and Daniel Novy We have added inexpensive, low-power, wireless sensors to product packages to detect user interactions with products. Thus, a bottle can register when and how often its contents are dispensed (and generate side effects, like causing a music player to play music when the bottle is picked up, or generating an automatic refill order when near-emptiness is detected). A box can understand usage patterns of its contents. Consumers can vote for their favorites among several alternatives simply by handling them more often. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-7 | Calliope | http://calliope.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove Jr., Edwina Portocarrero and Ye Wang Calliope is the follow-up to the NeverEnding Drawing Machine. A portable, paper-based platform for interactive story making, it allows physical editing of shared digital media at a distance. The system is composed of a network of creation stations that seamlessly blend analog and digital media. Calliope documents and displays the creative process with no need to interact directly with a computer. By using human-readable tags and allowing any object to be used as material for creation, it offers opportunities for cross-cultural and cross-generational collaboration among peers with expertise in different media. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-8 | Consumer Holo-Video | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove Jr., Bianca Datta, Ermal Dreshaj and Sundeep Jolly The goal of this project, building upon work begun by Stephen Benton and the Spatial Imaging group, is to create an inexpensive desktop monitor for a PC or game console that displays holographic video images in real time, suitable for entertainment, engineering, or medical imaging. To date, we have demonstrated the fast rendering of holo-video images (including stereographic images, which, unlike ordinary stereograms, have focusing consistent with depth information) from OpenGL databases on off-the-shelf PC graphics cards; current research addresses new optoelectronic architectures to reduce the size and manufacturing cost of the display system. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-9 | Crystal Ball | http://viral.media.mit.edu/projects/crystalball/ | description:Amir Lazarovich, Dan Novy, Andy Lippman, Michael Bove A physical interface designed for simultaneous social interaction with visual material. We built a hemispherical, multi-person, interactive touch display that allows a small group of people in the same place or in equivalently equipped ones to jointly interact on the same surface. We created an application that runs on this platform and presents a selection of visual media and offers recommendations for common viewing. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-10 | Dressed in Data | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-object-based-media-10 Dressed in Data | description:V. Michael Bove and Laura Perovich This project steps beyond data visualizations to create data experiences. It aims to engage not only the analytic mind, but also the artistic and emotional self. In this project, chemicals found in people's bodies and homes are turned into a series of fashions. Quantities, properties, and sources of chemicals are represented through various parameters of the fashion, such as fabric color, textures, and sizes. Wearing these outfits allows people to live the data–to experience tangibly the findings from their homes and bodies. This is the first project in a series of works that seek to create aesthetic data experiences that prompt researchers and laypeople to engage with information in new ways.
mit-media-object-based-media-11 | DUSK | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-object-based-media-11 DUSK | description:Special Interest group(s):  Advancing Wellbeing V. Michael Bove, Bianca Datta and Ermal Dreshaj DUSK was created as part of the Media Lab's Advancing Wellbeing Initiative (supported by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation) to create private, restful spaces for people in the workplace. DUSK promotes a vision of a new type of "nap pod," where workers are encouraged to use the structure on a daily basis for regular breaks and meditation. The user is provided with the much-needed privacy to take a phone call, focus, or rest inside the pod for short periods during the day. The inside can be silent, or filled by binaural beats audio; pitch black, or illuminated by a sunlamp—whatever works for users to get the rest and relaxation needed to continue to be healthy and productive. DUSK is created with a parametric press-fit design, making it scalable and suitable for fabrication customizable on a per-user basis.
mit-media-object-based-media-12 | EmotiveModeler: An Emotive Form Design CAD Tool | http://emotivemodeler.media.mit.edu/ | description:V. Michael Bove and Philippa Mothersill Whether or not we're experts in the design language of objects, we have an unconscious understanding of the emotional character of their forms. EmotiveModeler integrates knowledge about our emotive perception of shapes into a CAD tool that uses descriptive adjectives as an input to aid both expert and novice designers in creating objects that can communicate emotive character. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-13 | EmotiveModeler: Tactile Allegory Design Framework | http://emotivemodeler.media.mit.edu/ | description:V. Michael Bove and Philippa Mothersill We have an unconscious understanding of the meaning of different physical objects through our extensive interactions with them. Designers can extend and adapt the existing symbolic meanings through the design of these objects, adding a layer of emotive expression by manipulating their forms. Tactile Allegory explores the physical design language encoded into objects and asks: how can objects be computationally designed to communicate specific information through their very forms? This research explores the underlying design "grammar" of the form of objects, particularly how objects can communicate information to us through their form. This framework is used to create a computational design tool to help people design expressively shaped objects that can express higher-level sentiments of their ideas via aesthetic forms. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-14 | Everything Tells a Story | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove Jr., David Cranor and Edwina Portocarrero Following upon work begun in the Graspables project, we are exploring what happens when a wide range of everyday consumer products can sense, interpret into human terms (using pattern recognition methods), and retain memories, such that users can construct a narrative with the aid of the recollections of the "diaries" of their sporting equipment, luggage, furniture, toys, and other items with which they interact. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-15 | Guided-Wave Light Modulator | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove Jr., Bianca Datta and Sunny Jolly We are developing inexpensive, efficient, high-bandwidth light modulators based on lithium niobate guided-wave technology. These modulators are suitable for demanding, specialized applications such as holographic video displays, as well as other light modulation uses such as compact video projectors. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-16 | Holoshop | http://www.vislab.net/projects/holoshop | description:Paula Dawson, Masa Takatsuka, Hiroshi Yoshikawa, Brian Rogers, V. Michael Bove Jr. This project aims to make it easy to create 3D drawings that have the highly nuanced qualities of handmade drawings. Typically, 2D drawing relies on the conjunction of the friction and pressure of the medium (pencil and paper) to enable a sensitive registration of the gesture. However, when drawing in 3D there is not necessarily a "support." Holoshop software uses forces and magnetism of open and closed fields to enable the user to locate fixed and semipermeable "supports" within the 3D environment. Holoshop is being developed for use in conjunction with a haptic device, the Phantom, enabling the user to navigate 3D space though both touch and vision. Also, the real-time modulation of lines from velocity and pressure enable responsive drawings which can be exported for holograms, 3D prints, and other 3D displays. This research is supported under Australian Research Council's Discovery Projects funding scheme (DP1094613). view site
mit-media-object-based-media-17 | Infinity-by-Nine | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove Jr. and Daniel Novy We are expanding the home-video viewing experience by generating imagery to extend the TV screen and give the impression that the scene wraps completely around the viewer. Optical flow, color analysis, and heuristics extrapolate beyond the screen edge, where projectors provide the viewer's perceptual vision with low-detail dynamic patterns that are perceptually consistent with the video imagery and increase the sense of immersive presence and participation. We perform this processing in real time using standard microprocessors and GPUs. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-18 | ListenTree: Audio-Haptic Display in the Natural Environment | http://listentree.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove, Joseph A. Paradiso, Gershon Dublon and Edwina Portocarrero ListenTree is an audio-haptic display embedded in the natural environment. Visitors to our installation notice a faint sound emerging from a tree. By resting their heads against the tree, they are able to hear sound through bone conduction. To create this effect, an audio exciter transducer is weatherproofed and attached to the tree's roots, transforming it into a living speaker, channeling audio through its branches, and providing vibrotactile feedback. In one deployment, we used ListenTree to display live sound from an outdoor ecological monitoring sensor network, bringing a faraway wetland into the urban landscape. Our intervention is motivated by a need for forms of display that fade into the background, inviting attention rather than requiring it. We consume most digital information through devices that alienate us from our surroundings; ListenTree points to a future where digital information might become enmeshed in material. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-19 | Live Objects | http://liveobjects.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove, Arata Miyamoto and Valerio Panzica La Manna A Live Object consists of a new small device that can stream media content wirelessly to nearby mobile devices without an Internet connection. Live Objects are associated with real objects in the environment, such as an art piece in a museum, a statue in a public space, or a product in a store. Users exploring a space can discover nearby Live Objects and view content associated with them, as well as leave comments for future visitors. The mobile device retains a record of the media viewed (and links to additional content), while the objects can retain a record of who viewed them. Future extensions will look into making the system more social, exploring game applications such as media “scavenger hunts” built on top of the platform, and incorporating other types of media such as live and historical data from sensors associated with the objects. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-20 | Narratarium | http://cloobot.com | description:V. Michael Bove Jr., Fransheska Colon, Catherine Havasi, Katherine (Kasia) Hayden, Daniel Novy, Jie Qi and Robert H. Speer Narratarium augments printed and oral stories and creative play by projecting immersive images and sounds. We are using natural language processing to listen to and understand stories being told, and analysis tools to recognize activity among sensor-equipped objects such as toys, then thematically augmenting the environment using video and sound. New work addresses the creation and representation of audiovisual content for immersive story experiences and the association of such content with viewer context. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-21 | Networked Playscapes: Dig Deep | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-object-based-media-21 Networked Playscapes: Dig Deep | description:V. Michael Bove and Edwina Portocarrero Networked Playscapes re-imagine outdoor play by merging the flexibility and fantastical of the digital world with the tangible, sensorial properties of physical play to create hybrid interactions for the urban environment. Dig Deep takes the classic sandbox found in children's playgrounds and merges it with the common fantasy of "digging your way to the other side of the world" to create a networked interaction in tune with child cosmogony.
mit-media-object-based-media-22 | Pillow-Talk | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-object-based-media-22 Pillow-Talk | description:V. Michael Bove Jr., Edwina Portocarrero and David Cranor Pillow-Talk is the first of a series of objects designed to aid creative endeavors through the unobtrusive acquisition of unconscious, self-generated content to permit reflexive self-knowledge. Composed of a seamless recording device embedded in a pillow, and a playback and visualization system in a jar, Pillow-Talk crystallizes that which we normally forget. This allows users to capture their dreams in a less mediated way, aiding recollection by priming the experience and providing no distraction for recall and capture through embodied interaction.
mit-media-object-based-media-23 | ShAir: A Platform for Mobile Content Sharing | http://shair.media.mit.edu/ | description:Yosuke Bando, Daniel Dubois, Konosuke Watanabe, Arata Miyamoto, Henry Holtzman, and V. Michael Bove ShAir is a platform for instantly and easily creating local content-shareable spaces without requiring an Internet connection or location information. ShAir-enabled devices can opportunistically communicate with other mobile devices and optional pervasive storage devices such as WiFi SD cards whenever they enter radio range of one another. Digital content can hop through devices in the background without user intervention. Applications that can be built on top of the platform include ad-hoc photo/video/music sharing and distribution, opportunistic social networking and games, digital business card exchange during meetings and conferences, and local news article-sharing on trains and buses. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-24 | Slam Force Net | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove Jr., Santiago Alfaro and Daniel Novy A basketball net incorporates segments of conductive fiber whose resistance changes with degree of stretch. By measuring this resistance over time, hardware associated with this net can calculate force and speed of a basketball traveling through the net. Applications include training, toys that indicate the force and speed on a display, “dunk competitions,” and augmented-reality effects on television broadcasts. This net is far less expensive and more robust than other approaches to measuring data about the ball (e.g., photosensors or ultrasonic sensors) and the only physical change required for the hoop or backboard is electrical connections to the net. Another application of the material is a flat net that can measure velocity of a ball hit or pitched into it (as in baseball or tennis); it can measure position as well (e.g., for determining whether a practice baseball pitch would have been a strike). view site
mit-media-object-based-media-25 | Smell Narratives | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:Carol Rozendo and V. Michael Bove We are adding an olfactory dimension to storytelling in order to create more immersive and evocative experiences. Smell Narratives allows the authoring of a "smell track" involving individual or proportionally mixed fragrance components. view site
mit-media-object-based-media-26 | SurroundVision | http://obm.media.mit.edu | description:V. Michael Bove Jr. and Santiago Alfaro Adding augmented reality to the living-room TV, we are exploring the technical and creative implications of using a mobile phone or tablet (and possibly also dedicated devices like toys) as a controllable "second screen" for enhancing television viewing. Thus, a viewer could use the phone to look beyond the edges of the television to see the audience for a studio-based program, to pan around a sporting event, to take snapshots for a scavenger hunt, or to simulate binoculars to zoom in on a part of the scene. Recent developments include the creation of a mobile device app for Apple products and user studies involving several genres of broadcast television programming. view site
