ECE18050 | Study Abroad | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18050&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:Missing Course Description - please contact the teaching department.
ECE18051 | Study Abroad | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18051&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:Students are encouraged to various international collaborative programs offered through the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
ECE18090 | Twisted Signals: Multimedia Processing for the Arts | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18090&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Stiles, Jesse description:[IDeATe portal course] - This course presents an overview on manipulating and synthesizing sound, video, and control signals.  Signals are the raw materials used in many forms of electronic art and design - electronic music, interactive art, video art, kinetic sculpture, and more. In these fields, signals are used to represent information about sound, images, sensors, and movement. By transforming and manipulating these types of signals, we are able to create powerful new tools for digital art, multimedia applications, music, responsive environments, video and sound installation, smart products, and beyond.  In this course we will study Signal Processing from a practical point-of-view, developing tools that can be easily integrated into art-making using the graphical programming environment Max (a.k.a. Max/MSP/Jitter).  We will present a survey of Signal Processing techniques used in the sonic and visual arts, and will discuss the mathematical theories underlying these techniques.  Students will be encouraged to combine, modify, and extend working examples of software to create original digital artworks.  Please note that there will be usage/materials fees associated with this course.
ECE18100 | Introduction to Electrical and Computer Engineering | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18100&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Carley, L.Sullivan, Thomas description:The goals of this freshman engineering course are:    * To introduce basic concepts in electrical and computer engineering in an integrated manner;  * To motivate basic concepts in the context of real applications;   * To illustrate a logical way of thinking about problems and their solutions, and;  * To convey the excitement of the profession.    These goals are attained through analysis, construction and testing of an electromechanical system (e.g., a robot) that incorporates concepts from a broad range of areas within Electrical and Computer Engineering. Some of the specific topics that will be covered include system decomposition, ideal and real sources, Kirchhoffs Current and Voltage Laws, Ohms Law, piecewise linear modeling of nonlinear circuit elements, Ideal Op-Amp characteristics, combinational logic circuits, Karnaugh Maps, Flip-Flops, sequential logic circuits, and finite state machines.    3 hrs. lec., 1 hr. rec., 3 hr. lab.
ECE18200 | ECE Sophomore Seminar | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18200&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James prereq:18100 description:The class comprises of a series of lectures from our own faculty and alumni, Department and University staff, and student groups. Students are required to attend each lecture. The lectures are designed to serve the following purposes: 1. Introduce to students to the faculty members research field and the most current world advancements in engineering and technology in that area; 2. Provide students a good understanding of our curriculum structure and the courses in various areas; 3. Present correlations between the present technological developments and our courses for each course area; 4. Introduce new undergraduate courses; 5. Advertise on-campus/off-campus research opportunities for undergraduate students and explain the corresponding research projects; 6. Motivate students with positive presentations on the importance of obtaining education and gaining self-learning ability; 7. Provide basic education on learning and working ethics.
ECE18202 | Mathematical Foundations of Electrical Engineering | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18202&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Kar, SoummyaChi, Yuejie prereq:21122 description:This course covers topics from engineering mathematics that serve as foundations for descriptions of electrical engineering devices and systems. It is the corequisite mathematics course for 18-220, Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering. The topics include: 1.MATLAB as a robust computational tool, used to reinforce, enrich and integrate ideas throughout the course, including software exercises and projects in combination with homework assignments; 2.Complex Analysis, including rectangular and polar representations in the complex plane with associated forms of complex arithmetic, powers, roots and complex logarithms, complex differentiation, analytic functions and Cauchy-Riemann equations, complex Taylor series, complex exponential, sinusoidal and hyperbolic functions, and Eulers formula; 3.Fourier Analysis, including orthogonality of sinusoids, trigonometric and exponential forms of Fourier series, Fourier integrals and Fourier transforms; 4.Linear, Constant-Coefficient Differential Equations, including complex exponential solutions to homogeneous equations and particular solutions with polynomial and sinusoidal driving functions described by phasors; 5.Difference Equations, with emphasis upon their relationship to differential equations, and; 6.Linear Algebra and Matrices, including matrix arithmetic, linear systems of equations and Gaussian elimination, vector spaces and rank of matrices, matrix inverses and determinants, eigenvalue problems and their relationship to systems of homogeneous differential equations.
ECE18213 | Introduction to Computer Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18213&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Lucia, BrandonGoldstein, Seth prereq:15122 description:This course provides a programmers view of how computer systems execute programs, store information, and communicate. It enables students to become more effective programmers, especially in dealing with issues of performance, portability and robustness. It also serves as a foundation for courses on compilers, networks, operating systems, and computer architecture, where a deeper understanding of systems-level issues is required. Topics covered include: machine-level code and its generation by optimizing compilers, performance evaluation and optimization, computer arithmetic, memory organization and management, networking technology and protocols, and supporting concurrent computation. NOTE: students must achieve a C or better in order to use this course to satisfy the pre-requisite for any subsequent Computer Science course.    Prerequisites: 15-123 (Grade of C or higher is required in the prerequisite)
ECE18220 | Electronic Devices and Analog Circuits | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18220&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Kelly, ShawnBain, James prereq:18100 description:This course covers fundamental topics that are common to a wide variety of electrical engineering devices and systems. The topics include an introduction to semiconductor devices and technology, DC circuit analysis techniques, operational amplifiers, energy storage elements, sinusoidal steady-state response, frequency domain analysis, filters, and transient response of first- and second-order systems. The laboratories allow students to use modern electronic instrumentation and to build and operate circuits that address specific concepts covered in the lectures, including semiconductor devices and sensors, layout, operational amplifiers, filters, signal detection and processing, power converters and circuit transients.    3 hrs. lec., 1 hr. rec., 3 hrs. lab.
ECE18231 | Sophomore Projects | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18231&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon   considers experiential learning opportunities important educational   options for its undergraduate students.  One such option is conducting   undergraduate research with a faculty member.  Students do not need to   officially register for undergraduate research unless they want it   listed on their official transcripts.  An ECE student who is involved in   a research project and is interested in registering this undergraduate   research for course credit on the official transcript may request to be   enrolled in this course.  To do this, the student should first complete   the on-line undergraduate research form available on the ECE   undergraduate student page.  Once the form has been submitted and   approved by the faculty member the student is conducting the research   with, the ECE Undergraduate Office will add the course to the students   schedule.  Typical credit is granted as one hour of research per week is   equal to one unit of credit.
ECE18232 | Sophomore Projects | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18232&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon   considers experiential learning opportunities important educational   options for its undergraduate students.  One such option is conducting   undergraduate research with a faculty member.  Students do not need to   officially register for undergraduate research unless they want it   listed on their official transcripts.  An ECE student who is involved in   a research project and is interested in registering this undergraduate   research for course credit on the official transcript may request to be   enrolled in this course.  To do this, the student should first complete   the on-line undergraduate research form available on the ECE   undergraduate student page.  Once the form has been submitted and   approved by the faculty member the student is conducting the research   with, the ECE Undergraduate Office will add the course to the students   schedule.  Typical credit is granted as one hour of research per week is   equal to one unit of credit.
ECE18240 | Structure and Design of Digital Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18240&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Nace, WilliamGhose, Saugata prereq:18100 description:This course introduces basic issues in design and verification of modern digital systems. Topics include: Boolean algebra, digital number systems and computer arithmetic, combinational logic design and simplification, sequential logic design and optimization, register-transfer design of digital systems, basic processor organization and instruction set issues, assembly language programming and debugging, and a hardware description language. Emphasis is on the fundamentals: the levels of abstraction and hardware description language methods that allow designers to cope with hugely complex systems, and connections to practical hardware implementation problems. Students will use computer-aided digital design software and actual hardware implementation laboratories to learn about real digital systems. 3 hr. lec., 1 hr. rec., 3 hr. lab.
ECE18290 | Signals and Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18290&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Sankaranarayanan, Aswin prereq:18100 description:This course develops the mathematical foundation and computational tools for processing continuous-time and discrete-time signals in both time and frequency domain. Key concepts and tools introduced and discussed in this class include linear time-invariant systems, impulse response, frequency response, convolution, filtering, sampling, and Fourier transform. Efficient algorithms like the fast Fourier transform (FFT) will be covered. The course provides background to a wide range of applications including speech, image, and multimedia processing, bio and medical imaging, sensor networks, communication systems, and control systems.     This course serves as entry and prerequisite for any higher level course in the fields of signal processing, communications, and control.      Prerequisite(s): 18-100    Corequisite(s): 18-202
ECE18300 | Fundamentals of Electromagnetics | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18300&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Chamanzar, Maysam prereq:18220 description:This course introduces electromagnetic principles and describes ways in which those principles are applied in engineering devices and systems. Topics include: vector calculus as a mathematical foundation for field descriptions, Maxwells equations in integral and differential forms with associated boundary conditions as descriptions of all electromagnetic principles, quasistatic electric fields in free space and in materials, superposition for known charge sources, conduction and polarization, resistance and capacitance, charge relaxation, analytic and numerical methods for electric field boundary value problems, quasistatic magnetic fields in free space and in materials, superposition for known current sources, magnetization, inductance, magnetic diffusion, and analytic and numerical methods for magnetic field boundary value problems. 4 hrs. lec.
ECE18310 | Fundamentals of Semiconductor Devices | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18310&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Zhu, Jian-Gang prereq:18220 description:This course replaced 18311 in Spring 2005.  In this course you will receive an introduction to the operation and fabrication of the most important semiconductor devices used in integrated circuit technology together with device design and layout. At the end of the course you will have a basic understanding of pn diodes, bipolar transistors, and MOSFETs as well as some light emitting and light detecting devices such as photodiodes, LEDs and solar cells. You will also receive an introduction to the fundamental concepts of semiconductor physics such as doping, electron and hole transport, and band diagrams. In the laboratory you will learn how to lay out both bipolar and MOS devices and you will design small (2-3 transistor) circuits. The laboratory portion of the course emphasizes the relation between device design and layout and circuit performance. You will also experimentally evaluate the operation of amplifier and gate circuits fabricated with discrete devices. This course will give you an excellent understanding of the operation and fabrication of the devices which is necessary for high-performance analog and digital circuit design.     3 hrs. lec.     (Note: the prerequisite is typically waived for MSE students who intend to pursue the Electronic Materials Minor.)
ECE18320 | Microelectronic Circuits: Microelectronic Circuits | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18320&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Paramesh, Jeyanandh prereq:18220 description:18-320 introduces students to the fundamentals of microelectronic circuits. The course will emphasize the analysis and design of basic analog and digital integrated circuits in preparation for further study in analog, digital, mixed-signal, and radio-frequency integrated circuit design. Additionally, students will learn to design and analyze microelectronic circuits using industry standard computer aided design (CAD) software. Topics to be covered include:   MOSFET fabrication and layout   MOSFET models for analog and digital design   Analysis and design of digital CMOS logic gates   Analysis and design of clocked storage elements (e.g., flip-flops, latches, memory cells)   Delay optimization of digital circuits   Circuit topologies for arithmetic and logical functional units   Analysis and design of single-stage MOS amplifiers   Frequency response characteristics of single-stage amplifiers   Differential amplifiers and simple operational amplifiers   Analog filters using operational amplifiers    The course includes a lab component which will give students hands-on experience in the design and implementation of analog and digital circuits. Labs will employ both design using discrete, SSI, and MSI parts, as well as using CAD design tools.
ECE18330 | Introduction to Computer Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18330&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Parno, BryanSekar, Vyas prereq:18213 description:Security is becoming one of the core requirements in the design of critical systems. This course will introduce students to the intro-level fundamental knowledge of computer security and applied cryptography. Students will learn the basic concepts in computer security including software vulnerability analysis and defense, networking and wireless security, and applied cryptography. Students will also learn the fundamental methodology for how to design and analyze security critical systems.
ECE18331 | Junior Projects | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18331&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon   considers experiential learning opportunities important educational   options for its undergraduate students.  One such option is conducting   undergraduate research with a faculty member.  Students do not need to   officially register for undergraduate research unless they want it   listed on their official transcripts.  An ECE student who is involved in   a research project and is interested in registering this undergraduate   research for course credit on the official transcript may request to be   enrolled in this course.  To do this, the student should first complete   the on-line undergraduate research form available on the ECE   undergraduate student page.  Once the form has been submitted and   approved by the faculty member the student is conducting the research   with, the ECE Undergraduate Office will add the course to the students   schedule.  Typical credit is granted as one hour of research per week is   equal to one unit of credit.
ECE18332 | Junior Projects | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18332&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon   considers experiential learning opportunities important educational   options for its undergraduate students.  One such option is conducting   undergraduate research with a faculty member.  Students do not need to   officially register for undergraduate research unless they want it   listed on their official transcripts.  An ECE student who is involved in   a research project and is interested in registering this undergraduate   research for course credit on the official transcript may request to be   enrolled in this course.  To do this, the student should first complete   the on-line undergraduate research form available on the ECE   undergraduate student page.  Once the form has been submitted and   approved by the faculty member the student is conducting the research   with, the ECE Undergraduate Office will add the course to the students   schedule.  Typical credit is granted as one hour of research per week is   equal to one unit of credit.
ECE18334 | Network Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18334&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Sekar, Vyas prereq:18330 or 15330 description:Some of todays most damaging attacks on computer systems involve exploitation of network infrastructure, either as the target of attack or as a vehicle to advance attacks on end systems. This course provides an in-depth study of network attack techniques and methods to defend against them. The course will cover topics spanning five broad themes: (1) infrastructure topics such as firewalls, network intrusion detection, secure routing protocols, and recent advances such as software-defined networking; (2)network attacks such as denial of service (DoS) and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, worm and virus propagation; (3)analysis and inference topics such as network forensics and attack economics; (4) user related topics such as authentication, anonymity and censorship resilience; and (5) new technologies related to next-generation networks, and cellular and wireless networks.  Students in 18-334 will share lectures and homeworks with students in 18-731. However, 18-731 will have additional requirements not shared by 18-334, including the requirement to produce scribe notes and to practice and demonstrate the ability to read and summarize scientific papers on the topics covered by the course.
ECE18335 | Secure Software Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18335&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bauer, Ljudevit prereq:18330 or 15330 description:Poor software design and engineering are the root causes of most security vulnerabilities in deployed systems today. Moreover, with code mobility now commonplace--particularly in the context of web technologies and digital rights management--system designers are increasingly faced with protecting hosts from foreign software and protecting software from foreign hosts running it. This class takes a close look at software as a mechanism for attack, as a tool for protecting resources, and as a resource to be defended. Topics covered include the software design process; choices of programming languages, operating systems, databases and distributed object platforms for building secure systems; common software vulnerabilities, such as buffer overflows and race conditions; auditing software; proving properties of software; software and data watermarking; code obfuscation; tamper resistant software; and the benefits of open and closed source development.  Students in 18-335 will share lectures and homeworks with students in 18-732. However, 18-732 has additional requirements not shared by 18-335, including the requirement to produce scribe notes and to practice and demonstrate the ability to read and summarize scientific papers on the topics covered by the course.
ECE18340 | Hardware Arithmetic for Machine Learning | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18340&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Blanton, Ronald prereq:18240 description:In this course, students explore the techniques for designing high-performance digital circuits for computation along with methods for evaluating their characteristics. We begin by reviewing number systems and digital arithmetic along with basic arithmetic circuits such as ripple-carry adders. From there, we move to more complex adders (carry-look-ahead, carry-skip, carry-bypass, etc.), multipliers, dividers, and floating-point units. For each circuit introduced, we will develop techniques and present theory for evaluating their functionality and speed. Other methods will be described for analyzing a circuits power consumption, testability, silicon area requirements, correctness, and cost. In addition, we will utilize various CAD tools to evaluate the circuits described. Finally, advanced timing and clocking concepts will be investigated. For example, the notion of clock skew will be introduced and its impact on clock period for sequential circuits will be analyzed. We will also learn how to analyze and design asynchronous circuits, a class of sequential circuits that do not utilize a clock signal.  Course projects focus on key arithmetic aspects of various machine learning algorithms including: K-nearest neighbors, neural networks, decision trees, and support vector machines.  *Note: Although students in 18-340 and 18-640 will share lectures, labs, and recitations, students in 18-340 and 18-640 will receive different homework assignments, design projects, and exams. In some cases 18-640 students will also have different or additional lab sessions. The homework assignments, design projects, and exams that are given to the students registered for 18-640 will be more challenging than those given to the students registered for 18-340 in that they will have more complex designs, involve additional theoretical analysis, and have more stringent specifications (e.g., in area, power, performance, and robustness).
ECE18341 | Logic Design and Verification | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18341&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Nace, William prereq:18240 description:This course is a second level logic design course, studying the techniques of designing at the register-transfer and logic levels of complex digital systems using modern modeling, simulation, synthesis, and verification tools. Topics include register-transfer level systems (i.e., finite state machines and data paths), bus and communication system interfacing (such as a simplified USB interface), discrete-event simulation, testbench organization, assertion-based verification and functional coverage. Design examples will be drawn from bus and communication interfaces, and computation systems, emphasizing how these systems are designed and how their functionality can be verified. A modern hardware description language, such as SystemVerilog, will serve as the basis for uniting these topics. Quizzes, homeworks and design projects will serve to exercise these topics.
ECE18349 | Introduction to Embedded Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18349&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Carlisle, Martin prereq:18240 and 18213 description:This practical, hands-on course introduces the various building blocks and underlying scientific and engineering principles behind embedded real-time systems. The course covers the integrated hardware and software aspects of embedded processor architectures, along with advanced topics such as real-time, resource/device and memory management. Students can expect to learn how to program with the embedded architecture that is ubiquitous in smartphones, portable gaming devices, robots, etc. Students will then go on to learn and apply real-time principles that are used to drive critical embedded systems like automobiles, avionics, medical equipment, etc. Topics covered include embedded architectures (building up to modern 16/32/64-bit embedded processors); interaction with devices (buses, memory architectures, memory management, device drivers); concurrency (software and hardware interrupts, timers); real-time principles (multi-tasking, scheduling, synchronization); implementation trade-offs, profiling and code optimization (for performance and memory); embedded software (exception handling, loading, mode-switching, programming embedded systems). Through a series of laboratory exercises with state-of-the-art embedded processors, sensors, actuators and industry-strength development tools, students will acquire skills in the design/implementation/debugging of core embedded real-time functionality.
ECE18370 | Fundamentals of Control | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18370&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Ilic, Jovan prereq:18290 or 18396 description:An introduction to the fundamental principles and methodologies of classical feedback control and its applications. Emphasis is on problem formulation and the analysis and synthesis of servomechanisms using frequency and time domain techniques. Topics include analytical, graphical, and computer-aided (MATLAB) techniques for analyzing and designing automatic control systems; analysis of performance, stability criteria, realizability, and speed of response; compensation methods in the frequency domain, root-locus and frequency response design, and pole-zero synthesis techniques; robust controller design; systems with delay and computer control systems; transfer function and state space modeling of linear dynamic physical systems; nonlinearities in control systems; and control engineering software (MATLAB). 4 hrs. lec., 1 hr. rec.
ECE18372 | Fundamental Electrical Power Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18372&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Ilic, Jovan prereq:18202 and 18220 description:This course introduces the fundamentals in electric energy systems which will enable you to understand current issues and challenges in electric power systems (smart grid) and what it takes for you to have a reliable electric power supply at your house. First, the general structure of an electric power system (current and future trends) will be introduced. This includes electric power plants (renewable and non-renewable); transmission and distribution; and consumers. Then, electric power is addressed from a mathematical point of view. The mathematical formulae for AC power and models for the above mentioned elements are derived which will enable you to calculate how much power is flowing over which lines on its way from the power plant to the consumer. Maintaining the balance between generation and consumption is important to avoid catastrophic blackout events. Hence, the notion of stability and available control concepts will be introduced.
ECE18390 | ECE CO-OP | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18390&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon considers experiential learning opportunities important educational options for its undergraduate students. One such option is cooperative education, which provides a student with an extended period of exposure with a company. To participate, students must complete an ECE Co-op Approval form (located in HH 1116) and submit for approval. Students must possess at least junior status and have an overall grade point average of 3.0 or above. All co-ops must be approximately 8 months in uninterrupted length. If the co-op is approved, the ECE Undergraduate Studies Office will add the course to the students schedule. Upon completion of the co-op experience, students must submit a 1-2 page report of their work experience, and a 1-2 page evaluation from the company supervisor to the ECE Undergraduate Studies Office. Due to federal restrictions on student work experiences, international students are not eligible for co-ops. Please visit the CPT page for information regarding international student internships.
ECE18412 | Neural Technology:  Sensing and Stimulation | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18412&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Kelly, Shawn prereq:18220 description:This course gives engineering insight into the operation of excitable cells, as well as circuitry for sensing and stimulation nerves. Initial background topics include diffusion, osmosis, drift, and mediated transport, culminating in the Nernst equation of cell potential. We will then explore models of the nerve, including electrical circuit models and the Hodgkin-Huxley mathematical model. Finally, we will explore aspects of inducing a nerve to fire artificially, and cover circuit topologies for sensing action potentials and for stimulating nerves. If time allows, we will discuss other aspects of medical device design. Students will complete a neural stimulator or sensor design project.  Although students in 18-612 will share lectures and recitations with students in 18-412, students in 18-612 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct design problems, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18-412 and will be graded on a separate curve from students taking 18-412.
ECE18413 | Nano-Bio-PhotonicsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18413&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Chamanzar, Maysam prereq:18300 description:Light can penetrate biological tissues non-invasively. Most of the available bio-optic tools are bulky. With the advent of novel nanotechnologies, building on-chip integrated photonic devices for applications such as sensing, imaging, neural stimulation, and monitoring is now a possibility. These devices can be embedded in portable electronic devices such as cell phones for point of care diagnostics. This course is designed to convey the concepts of nano-bio-photonics in a practical way to prepare students to engage in emerging photonic technologies.  The course starts with a review of electrodynamics of lightwaves. The appropriate choice of wavelength and material platform is the next topic. Then optical waveguides and resonators are discussed. Resonance-based sensing is introduced followed by a discussion of the Figure of Merits (FOMs) used to design on-chip sensors. Silicon photonics is introduced as an example of a CMOS-compatible platform. On-chip spectroscopy is the next topic. The second part covers nano-plasmonics for bio-detection and therapy. The design methods are discussed, followed by an overview of nanofabrication and chemical synthesis, and then a discussion of applications. The last part of this course will be dedicated to a review of recent applications such as Optogenetic neural stimulation, Calcium imaging, Cancer Imaging and Therapy.  Senior or graduate standing required.  This course is cross-listed with 18613  Although students in 18-613 and 18-413 will share the same Lectures and Recitations. Students in 18-613 will receive distinct course projects. Students in 18-413 and 18-613 will be graded on separate curves.
ECE18416 | Nano-Bio-Photonics | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18416&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Chamanzar, Maysam prereq:18300 description:Light can penetrate biological tissues non-invasively. Most of the available bio-optic tools are bulky. With the advent of novel nanotechnologies, building on-chip integrated photonic devices for applications such as sensing, imaging, neural stimulation, and monitoring is now a possibility. These devices can be embedded in portable electronic devices such as cell phones for point of care diagnostics. This course is designed to convey the concepts of nano-bio-photonics in a practical way to prepare students to engage in emerging photonic technologies.  The course starts with a review of electrodynamics of lightwaves. The appropriate choice of wavelength and material platform is the next topic. Then optical waveguides and resonators are discussed. Resonance-based sensing is introduced followed by a discussion of the Figure of Merits (FOMs) used to design on-chip sensors. Silicon photonics is introduced as an example of a CMOS-compatible platform. On-chip spectroscopy is the next topic. The second part covers nano-plasmonics for bio-detection and therapy. The design methods are discussed, followed by an overview of nanofabrication and chemical synthesis, and then a discussion of applications. The last part of this course will be dedicated to a review of recent applications such as Optogenetic neural stimulation, Calcium imaging, Cancer Imaging and Therapy.  Senior or graduate standing required.  This course is cross-listed with 18616.  Although students in 18-616 and 18-416 will share the same lectures and recitations, students in 18-616 will receive distinct course projects. Students in 18-416 and 18-616 will be graded on separate curves.
ECE18418 | Electric Energy Processing: Fundamentals and ApplicationsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18418&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Ilic, Jovan prereq:18220 description:This course provides an introduction to the fundamentals of electrical energy conversion and its use in several real-life systems. The course starts with a brief review of general mathematical and physical principles necessary for subsequent study of electrical energy conversion applications. This includes modeling, analysis, and control of general physical systems in time and frequency domain. Since the focus of energy conversion methods studied in this course is from electrical to mechanical systems, special attention is paid to electromagnetic theory. Rotating machines theory is developed and intuitively explained starting with Maxwell equations and analyzing general static and dynamic electromagnetic circuits. Power electronics methods are also introduced because most of modern electrical systems employ such methods. At this point, the necessary background is gained to analyze real life electrical energy conversion systems. We will focus on automotive, airplane, space station, and sea power systems. The main focus will be on operational principles and when appropriate stability issues of particular implementations. Time allowing, dynamic problems with interconnecting such systems will be briefly introduced and possibly studied by curious students in their course projects.
ECE18421 | Analog Integrated Circuits: Analog Integrated Circuits I | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18421&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Pileggi, Lawrence prereq:18290 and 18320 description:Some form of analog circuit design is a critical step in the creation of every modern IC. First and foremost, analog circuits act as the interface between digital systems and the real world. They act to amplify and filter analog signals, and to convert signals from analog to digital and back again. In addition, high performance digital cell design (either high speed or low power) also invokes significant analog circuit design issues. The goal of this course is to teach students some of the methods used in the design and analysis of analog integrated circuits, to illustrate how one approaches design problems in general, and to expose students to a broad cross-section of important analog circuit topologies. The course will focus on learning design through carrying out design projects. Design and implementation details of wide-band amplifiers, operational amplifiers, filters and basic data converters will be covered. Example topics to be covered include transistor large- and small-signal device models, small-signal characteristics of transistor-based amplifiers, large-signal amplifier characteristics and nonidealities, operational amplifier design, basic feedback amplifier stability analysis and compensation, and comparator design. The course will focus primarily on analog CMOS, but some aspects of BJT design will be discussed.  18-290 and 18-320 or equivalent background material with permission of the instructor.   Although students in 18-623 will share Lectures and Recitations with students in 18-421, students in 18-623 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct design problems, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18-421 and will be graded on a separate curve from students taking 18-421.
ECE18422 | Digital Integrated Circuit Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18422&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Mai, Kenneth prereq:18240 and 18320 description:This course covers the design and implementation of digital circuits in a modern VLSI process technology. Topics will include logic gate design, functional unit design, latch/flip-flop design, system clocking, memory design, clock distribution, power supply distribution, design for test, and design for manufacturing. The lab component of the course will focus on using modern computer aided design (CAD) software to design, simulate, and lay out digital circuits. The final project for the course involves the design and implementation to the layout level of a small microprocessor.  18-240 and 18-320 or equivalent background material with permission of the instructor.  Although students in 18-422 and 18-622 will share lectures, labs, and recitations, students in 18-422 and 18-622 will receive different homework assignments, design projects, and exams, and in some cases 18-622 students will also have different or additional lab sessions.
ECE18431 | Undergraduate Projects - Senior | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18431&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon   considers experiential learning opportunities important educational   options for its undergraduate students.  One such option is conducting   undergraduate research with a faculty member.  Students do not need to   officially register for undergraduate research unless they want it   listed on their official transcripts.  An ECE student who is involved in   a research project and is interested in registering this undergraduate   research for course credit on the official transcript may request to be   enrolled in this course.  To do this, the student should first complete   the on-line undergraduate research form available on the ECE   undergraduate student page.  Once the form has been submitted and   approved by the faculty member the student is conducting the research   with, the ECE Undergraduate Office will add the course to the students   schedule.  Typical credit is granted as one hour of research per week is   equal to one unit of credit.
ECE18432 | Senior Projects | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18432&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon   considers experiential learning opportunities important educational   options for its undergraduate students.  One such option is conducting   undergraduate research with a faculty member.  Students do not need to   officially register for undergraduate research unless they want it   listed on their official transcripts.  An ECE student who is involved in   a research project and is interested in registering this undergraduate   research for course credit on the official transcript may request to be   enrolled in this course.  To do this, the student should first complete   the on-line undergraduate research form available on the ECE   undergraduate student page.  Once the form has been submitted and   approved by the faculty member the student is conducting the research   with, the ECE Undergraduate Office will add the course to the students   schedule.  Typical credit is granted as one hour of research per week is   equal to one unit of credit.
ECE18441 | Computer Networks | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18441&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Suresh Kumar, Swarun Kumar prereq:(36226 or 36212 or 36217) and (18213) description:The Internet has transformed our everyday lives, bringing people closer together and powering multi-billion dollar industries. The mobile revolution has brought Internet connectivity to the last-mile, connecting billions of users worldwide. But how does the Internet work? What do oft repeated acronyms like LTE, TCP, WWW or a HTTP actually mean and how do they work? This course introduces fundamental concepts of computer networks that form the building blocks of the Internet. We trace the journey of messages sent over the Internet from bits in a computer or phone to packets and eventually signals over the air or wires. We describe concepts that are common to and differentiate traditional wired computer networks from wireless and mobile networks. Finally, we build up to exciting new trends in computer networks such as the Internet of Things, 5-G and software defined networking. Topics include: physical layer and coding (CDMA, OFDM, etc.); data link protocol; flow control, congestion control, routing; local area networks (Ethernet, Wi-Fi, etc.); transport layer; and introduction to cellular (LTE) and 5-G networks. A final project asks you to a build a HTTP video server of your own.   This course is cross-listed with 18-741 - both editions will share Lectures and Recitations. However, students in the two courses will receive different exams and will have a different project. The students in the two versions of the course will be graded on a separate curve.
ECE18447 | Introduction to Computer Architecture | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18447&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Hoe, James prereq:(18240) and (18213 or 15213) and (18348 or 18341 or 18340 or 18349 or 18320) description:Computer architecture is the science and art of selecting and interconnecting hardware components to create a computer that meets functional, performance and cost goals. This course introduces the basic hardware structure of a modern programmable computer, including the basic laws underlying performance evaluation. We will learn, for example, how to design the control and data path hardware for a MIPS-like processor, how to make machine instructions execute simultaneously through pipelining and simple superscalar execution, and how to design fast memory and storage systems. The principles presented in the lecture are reinforced in the laboratory through the design and simulation of a register transfer (RT) implementation of a MIPS-like pipelined superscalar in Verilog. Learning to design programmable systems requires that you already have the knowledge of building RT systems, the knowledge of the behavior storage hierarchies (e.g., cache memories) and virtual memory, and the knowledge of assembly language programming.
ECE18452 | Wireless Networking and Applications | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18452&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Steenkiste, Peter prereq:18213 or 15213 or 18600 description:This course introduces fundamental concepts of wireless networks.  The design of wireless networks is influenced heavily by how signals travel through space, so the course starts with an introduction to the wireless physical layer, presented in a way that is accessible to a broad range of students. The focus of the course is on wireless MAC concepts including CSMA, TDMA/FDMA, and CDMA.  It also covers a broad range of wireless networking standards, and reviews important wireless network application areas (e.g., sensor networks, vehicular) and other applications of wireless technologies (e.g., GPS, RFID, sensing, etc.).   Finally, we will touch on public policy issues, e.g., as related to spectrum use. The course will specifically cover:   Wireless networking challenges  Wireless communication overview  Wireless MAC concepts   Overview of cellular standards and LTE   Overview of wireless MAC protocols WiFi, bluetooth and personal area networks, etc.  Wireless in todays Internet: TCP over wireless, mobility, security, etc.  Advanced topics, e.g., mesh and vehicular networks, sensor networks, DTNs, localization, sensing, etc. Although students in 18-750 will share Lectures and Recitations with students in 18-452, they will receive distinct homework assignments and exams from students in 18-452.  The main project will also be different.  The students in the two version of the course will also be graded on a separate curve.
ECE18460 | Optimization | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18460&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Fanti, Giulia prereq:18202 and 21241 and 36217 description:Many design problems in engineering (e.g., machine learning, finance, circuit design, etc.) involve minimizing (or maximizing) a cost (or reward) function. However, solving these problems analytically is often challenging. Optimization is the study of algorithms and theory for numerically solving such problems, and it underpins many of the technologies we use today.  This course is an introduction to optimization. Students will: (1)learn about common classes of optimization problems, (2) study (and implement) algorithms for solving them, and (3) gain hands-on experience with standard optimization  tools. We will focus on convex optimization problems, but will also discuss the growing role of non-convex optimization, as well as some more general numerical methods. The course will emphasize connections to real-world applications including machine learning, networking, and finance. The course will involve lectures, homework, exams, and a project.  This course is crosslisted with 18660. Although students in 18460 will share lectures with students in 18660, students in 18460 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct design problems, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18660. Specifically, the homework assignments, design problems and exams that are given to the 18660 students will be more challenging than those given to the 18460 students.
ECE18461 | Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18461&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Joshi, Gauri prereq:18202 and 15122 and 36217 and 21127 description:This course provides an introduction to machine learning with a special focus on engineering applications. The course starts with a mathematical background required for machine learning and covers approaches for supervised learning (linear models, kernel methods, decision trees, neural networks) and unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction), as well as theoretical foundations of machine learning (learning theory, optimization). Evaluation will consist of mathematical problem sets and programming projects targeting real-world engineering applications.  This course is crosslisted with 18661. Although students in 18461 will share lectures with students in 18661, students in 18461 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct programming projects, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18661. Specifically, the homework assignments, programming projects, and exams that are given to the 18661 students will be more challenging than those given to the 18461 students.
ECE18464 | ULSI Technology Status and Roadmap for System on Chips and System in Package | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18464&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Strojwas, Andrzej prereq:18320 or 18422 description:This course will provide the necessary background for the state-of-the art technologies utilized by the leading edge products covering full spectrum of market drivers from mobile platforms, microprocessors, game chips to the highest performance systems for enterprise solutions computing. We will present all key components of such systems, i.e., logic, analog/RF and embedded memories. Then we present the technology roadmap for the upcoming generations in terms of device architecture options for logic devices (FinFET, Nanowire and Tunnel FET) and memories (Phase Change Memory , Resistive RAM and Magnetic RAM/Spin-Transfer Torque RAM) from the device level all the way to the system level specifications. The last part of the class will be devoted to the system integration issues, namely 3-dimensional integration approaches.   This course is designed for MS and PhD students from diverse areas: System/Hardware Design, Circuits and Devices/Nanofabrication and is aimed at bridging the gap among these areas.
ECE18474 | Embedded Control SystemsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18474&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Ilic, Jovan prereq:(18213 or 15213) and (18370 or 18396) description:This course introduces principles for design of embedded controllers. In applications ranging from airplanes, to automobiles, to manufacturing systems, embedded computers now close feedback loops that were previously closed by mechanical devices or by humans in the loop. This course emphasizes practical insight into the tools for modeling and simulating these dynamic physical systems, and methods for designing the real-time software for embedded computers to control them. Lectures cover relevant theory and background from real-time systems and control engineering, including event-based and clock-based sampling, switching control, PWM (pulse-width modulation), PID (proportional-integral-derivative) design, state-variable feedback, state estimation, and methods for setpoint control and trajectory tracking. Basic embedded computing, sensor, and actuator technologies are reviewed, including microcontrollers, DC motors and optical encoders. In the laboratory, students use commercial tools for simulation and automatic code generation to design and implement embedded control system experiments.  3 hrs. lecture, 3 hrs. lab.
ECE18482 | Telecommunications Technology and Policy for the Internet Age | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18482&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Sirbu, Marvin prereq:73102 description:Modern telecommunications is the nervous system of society.  The Internet and wireless communications have transformed every aspect of our modern life.  This course provides a comprehensive introduction to basic principles of telecommunications technology and the legal, economic, and regulatory environment of todays networks.  Topics covered include the fundamentals of communication network technologies, including video, voice, and data networks; the rising dominance of wireless networks; principles behind telecommunications regulation from common carrier law and natural monopoly to information diversity, privacy and national security; traffic differentiation on the Internet and the debate over network neutrality; universal service and the digital divide; mergers, antitrust, and the changing industrial structure of the communications sector.  We will explore current topical questions such as the future of competition; the shift of entertainment video from cable and satellite to Internet delivery; how cloud computing concepts are transforming networks; and communications support for the Internet of Things.  Comparison with European approaches to communications regulation.  Special emphasis on how new technologies have altered, and are altered by, regulation.  Junior, Senior or graduate standing required.
ECE18487 | Introduction to Computer SecurityThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18487&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Sekar, VyasParno, Bryan prereq:18213 description:Security is becoming one of the core requirements in the design of critical systems. This course will introduce students to the intro-level fundamental knowledge of computer security and applied cryptography. Students will learn the basic concepts in computer security including software vulnerability analysis and defense, networking and wireless security, and applied cryptography. Students will also learn the fundamental methodology for how to design and analyze security critical systems.  Anti-requisites:  18-631 and 18-730
ECE18491 | Fundamentals of Signal Processing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18491&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Stern, Richard prereq:18290 description:This course addresses the mathematics, implementation, design and application of the digital signal processing algorithms widely used in areas such as multimedia telecommunications and speech and image processing. Topics include discrete-time signals and systems, discrete-time Fourier transforms and Z-transforms, discrete Fourier transforms and fast Fourier transforms, digital filter design and implementation, and multi-rate signal processing. The course will include introductory discussions of 2-dimensional signal processing, linear prediction, adaptive filtering, and selected application areas. Classroom lectures are supplemented with implementation exercises using MATLAB.
ECE18492 | Special Topics in Speech Processing: Speech Processing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18492&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Black, Alan description:Speech Processing offers a practical and theoretical understanding of how human speech can be processed by computers. It covers speech recognition, speech synthesis and spoken dialog systems. The course involves practicals where the student will build working speech recognition systems, build their own synthetic voice and build a complete telephone spoken dialog system. This work will be based on existing toolkits. Details of algorithms, techniques and limitations of state of the art speech systems will also be presented. This course is designed for students wishing understand how to process real data for real applications, applying statistical and machine learning techniques as well as working with limitations in the technology.
ECE18493 | Electroacoustics | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18493&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Sullivan, Thomas prereq:18220 and 18290 description:This course provides an introduction to physical, engineering, and architectural acoustics.  The course begins with a review of the wave equation and some of its solutions that are relevant to the propagation of sound from planar and spherical sources, and from arrays of simple sources.  Lumped-parameter electrical circuit analogies are developed to describe mechanical and acoustical systems, leading to a discussion of the constraints and tradeoffs involved in the design of loudspeakers, microphones, and other transducers.  The characteristics of sound in regular and irregular enclosures will be developed and discussed in the context of the acoustical design for rooms and auditoriums.  The interaction of sound and man is also discussed, with introductory lectures on auditory perception and the acoustics of speech production, with applications in the areas of efficient perceptually-based coding of music and speech, and virtual acoustical environments.
ECE18500 | ECE Design Experience | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18500&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Mai, KennethMukherjee, TamalNace, WilliamRowe, AnthonySavvides, MariosSullivan, Thomas prereq:18213 and 18290 and 18240 and 18220 description:The ECE Design Experience is a capstone design course that serves to introduce students to broad- based, practical engineering design and applications through an open-ended design problem.  Students will work with a team on a project of their choosing (subject to instructor approval) throughout the semester culminating with a final project presentation, report, and public demonstration.  The projects will need to encompass a minimum of two ECE areas. Throughout the semester, teams will need to give both written and oral project proposals and periodic performance updates. Team-building experiences designed to educate students on group dynamics, resource management, deadline planning, Big-picture implications of engineering applications: societal, human, ethical, and long-term impact will be explored.  PREREQUISITES: Any TWO 18-xxx ECE Area courses AND all four ECE Sophomore Core courses, 18-213, 18-220, 18-240 and 18-290.
ECE18540 | Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18540&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Smailagic, AsimSiewiorek, Daniel prereq:(18491 or 18370 or 18320) and (18340 or 18341 or 18349) description:This is a project-oriented course which will deal with all four aspects of project development; the application, the artifact, the computer-aided design environment, and the physical prototyping facilities. The class, in conjunction with the instructors, will develop specifications for a mobile computer to assist in inspection and maintenance. The application will be partitioned between human computer interaction, electronics, industrial design, mechanical, and software components. The class will be divided into groups to specify, design, and implement the various subsystems. The goal is to produce a working hardware/software prototype of the system and to evaluate the user acceptability of the system. We will also monitor our progress in the design process by capturing our design escapes (errors) with the Orthogonal Defect Classification (ODC). Upon completion of this course the student will be able to: generate systems specifications from a perceived need; partition functionality between hardware and software; produce interface specifications for a system composed of numerous subsystems; use computer-aided design tools; fabricate, integrate, and debug a hardware/software system; and evaluate the system in the context of an end user application. Senior standing is required. This course is crosslisted as 18745
ECE18578 | Mechatronic Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18578&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Travers, MatthewRiviere, Cameron prereq:(18348 and 18320) or (18348 and 15313) or (18370 and 18348) or (18349 and 18370) or (18349 and 15313) or (18349 and 18320) or (18370 and 18320) description:Mechatronics is the synergistic integration of mechanism, electronics, and computer control to achieve a functional system. Because of the emphasis upon integration, this course will center around system integration in which small teams of students will configure, design, and implement a succession of mechatronic subsystems, leading to a main project. Lectures will complement the laboratory experience with comparative surveys, operational principles, and integrated design issues associated with the spectrum of mechanism, electronics, and control components. Class lectures will cover topics intended to complement the laboratory work, including mechanisms, actuators, motor drives, sensors and electronic interfaces, microcontroller hardware and programming and basic controls. During the first week of class, each student will be asked to complete a questionnaire about their technical background. The class will then be divided into multi-disciplinary teams of three students. During the first half of the class, lab assignments will be made every 1-2 weeks to construct useful subsystems based on material learned in lecture. The lab assignments are geared to build to the main project. This course is cross-listed as 16-778 and 24-778.  Students in other departments may take the course upon availability of slots with permission of instructor.  Non ECE students may take the course upon availability of slots with permission of the instructor.
ECE18600 | Foundations of Computer SystemsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18600&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Franchetti, Franz description:This course provides a programmers view of how computer systems execute programs, store information, and communicate. It enables students to become more effective programmers, especially in dealing with issues of performance, portability and robustness. It also serves as a foundation for courses on compilers, networks, operating systems, and computer architecture, where a deeper understanding of systems-level issues is required. Topics covered include: machine-level code and its generation by optimizing compilers, performance evaluation and optimization, computer arithmetic, processor architecture, memory organization and management, networking technology and protocols, and supporting concurrent computation. This course is modeled after 15-213/18-213/15-513, and is intended for ECE MS students with expanded course contents presented at the graduate level. It prepares students for other graduate level computer systems courses as well as working in the industry.  Anti-requisites: 15213, 18213, 15513
ECE18601 | Entrepreneurship and Innovation in Technology | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18601&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Carryer, Barbara description:Have an idea you want to bring to the world?  Ever want to start a company?? Do you wonder what it takes to be an entrepreneur? Then this is the class for you. Entrepreneurship and Innovation in Technology is an introductory course in entrepreneurship for graduate students. The course targets non-business students and assumes no background in business. Students are exposed to fundamental concepts and issues around innovation and entrepreneurship. The course provides a foundation for starting a new venture and innovating new technologies and products within existing organizations. Topics covered will include: identifying a business opportunity, acquiring customers, building a team, developing a business model, understanding investment, managing risk, and achieving differentiation. Emphasis will be on team projects, including developing an investor pitch for an original idea.
ECE18612 | Neural Technology:  Sensing and Stimulation | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18612&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Kelly, Shawn prereq:18220 description:This course gives engineering insight into the operation of excitable cells, as well as circuitry for sensing and stimulation nerves. Initial background topics include diffusion, osmosis, drift, and mediated transport, culminating in the Nernst equation of cell potential. We will then explore models of the nerve, including electrical circuit models and the Hodgkin-Huxley mathematical model. Finally, we will explore aspects of inducing a nerve to fire artificially, and cover circuit topologies for sensing action potentials and for stimulating nerves. If time allows, we will discuss other aspects of medical device design. Students will complete a neural stimulator or sensor design project.  Although students in 18-612 will share lectures and recitations with students in 18-412, students in 18-612 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct design problems, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18-412 and will be graded on a separate curve from students taking 18-412.
ECE18613 | Foundations of Computer Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18613&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Franchetti, Franz description:This course provides a programmers view of how computer systems execute programs, store information, and communicate. It enables students to become more effective programmers, especially in dealing with issues of performance, portability and robustness. It also serves as a foundation for courses on compilers, networks, operating systems, and computer architecture, where a deeper understanding of systems-level issues is required. Topics covered include: machine-level code and its generation by optimizing compilers, performance evaluation and optimization, computer arithmetic, processor architecture, memory organization and management, networking technology and protocols, and supporting concurrent computation. This course is modeled after 15-213/18-213/15-513, and is intended for ECE MS students with expanded course contents presented at the graduate level. It prepares students for other graduate level computer systems courses as well as working in the industry.  Anti-requisites: 15213, 18213, 15513
ECE18614 | Microelectromechanical Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18614&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Piazza, Gianluca prereq:18300 or 18310 or 18320 or 24351 description:This course introduces fabrication and design fundamentals for Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS): on-chip sensor and actuator systems having micron-scale dimensions. Basic principles covered include microstructure fabrication, mechanics of silicon and thin-film materials, electrostatic force, capacitive motion detection, fluidic damping, piezoelectricity, piezoresistivity, and thermal micromechanics.   Applications covered include pressure sensors, micromirror displays, accelerometers, and gas microsensors. Grades are based on exams and homework assignments.    4 hrs. lec.
ECE18615 | Micro and Nano Systems Fabrication | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18615&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Piazza, Gianluca prereq:18310 description:This is a new course intended to introduce students to the process flow and design methodology for integrated systems fabrication. The course will present this material through two paths. Lectures will be presented on the basic unit processes of micro and nanosystems fabrication: deposition, patterning, and etching. Lectures will draw on examples from: Semiconductor device fabrication; Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) fabrication; Magnetic device fabrication; and Optical device fabrication. Problem sets will be given based on this lecture material to allow students to quantitatively analyze certain process steps in detail. The second path for material presentation will be through a series of labs that allow students to design, fabricate and test an integrated device. These laboratories will be scheduled at regular meeting times, and will use research facilities within the ECE department. This is a PhD level course. MS or senior students must obtain permission from the instructor to be registered.
ECE18616 | Nano-Bio-Photonics | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18616&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Chamanzar, Maysam prereq:18300 description:Light can penetrate biological tissues non-invasively. Most of the available bio-optic tools are bulky. With the advent of novel nanotechnologies, building on-chip integrated photonic devices for applications such as sensing, imaging, neural stimulation, and monitoring is now a possibility. These devices can be embedded in portable electronic devices such as cell phones for point of care diagnostics. This course is designed to convey the concepts of nano-bio-photonics in a practical way to prepare students to engage in emerging photonic technologies.  The course starts with a review of electrodynamics of lightwaves. The appropriate choice of wavelength and material platform is the next topic. Then optical waveguides and resonators are discussed. Resonance-based sensing is introduced followed by a discussion of the Figure of Merits (FOMs) used to design on-chip sensors. Silicon photonics is introduced as an example of a CMOS-compatible platform. On-chip spectroscopy is the next topic. The second part covers nano-plasmonics for bio-detection and therapy. The design methods are discussed, followed by an overview of nanofabrication and chemical synthesis, and then a discussion of applications. The last part of this course will be dedicated to a review of recent applications such as Optogenetic neural stimulation, Calcium imaging, Cancer Imaging and Therapy.  Senior or graduate standing required.  This course is cross-listed with 18416. Although students in 18-616 and 18-416 will share the same lectures and recitations, students in 18-616 will receive distinct course projects. Students in 18-416 and 18-616 will be graded on separate curves.
ECE18618 | Smart Grids and Future Electric Energy Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18618&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Ilic, Jovan prereq:18418 or 18771 description:Please click on the following link to view the course description.    http://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/items/18618.html
ECE18622 | Digital Integrated Circuit Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18622&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Mai, Kenneth prereq:18240 and 18320 description:This course covers the design and implementation of digital circuits in a modern VLSI process technology. Topics will include logic gate design, functional unit design, latch/flip-flop design, system clocking, memory design, clock distribution, power supply distribution, design for test, and design for manufacturing. The lab component of the course will focus on using modern computer aided design (CAD) software to design, simulate, and lay out digital circuits. The final project for the course involves the design and implementation to the layout level of a small microprocessor.  18-240 and 18-320 or equivalent background material with permission of the instructor.  Although students in 18-422 and 18-622 will share lectures, labs, and recitations, students in 18-422 and 18-622 will receive different homework assignments, design projects, and exams, and in some cases 18-622 students will also have different or additional lab sessions.
ECE18623 | Analog Integrated Circuit Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18623&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Pileggi, Lawrence prereq:18290 and 18320 description:Some form of analog circuit design is a critical step in the creation of every modern IC. First and foremost, analog circuits act as the interface between digital systems and the real world. They act to amplify and filter analog signals, and to convert signals from analog to digital and back again. In addition, high performance digital cell design (either high speed or low power) also invokes significant analog circuit design issues. The goal of this course is to teach students some of the methods used in the design and analysis of analog integrated circuits, to illustrate how one approaches design problems in general, and to expose students to a broad cross-section of important analog circuit topologies. The course will focus on learning design through carrying out design projects. Design and implementation details of wide-band amplifiers, operational amplifiers, filters and basic data converters will be covered. Example topics to be covered include transistor large- and small-signal device models, small-signal characteristics of transistor-based amplifiers, large-signal amplifier characteristics and nonidealities, operational amplifier design, basic feedback amplifier stability analysis and compensation, and comparator design. The course will focus primarily on analog CMOS, but some aspects of BJT design will be discussed.   18-290 and 18-320 or equivalent background material with permission of the instructor.  Although students in 18-623 will share Lectures and Recitations with students in 18-421, students in 18-623 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct design problems, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18-421 and will be graded on a separate curve from students taking 18-421.
ECE18625 | ULSI Mobile Platform and Server Product Design: System on Chip DesignThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18625&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Strojwas, Andrzej prereq:18664 description:The objective of this class is to design an ULSI (Ultra Large Scale Integrated)  mobile platform and a server product in two scenarios: System on Chip (SoC) and System in Package (SiP). State-of-the-art 2016 technology nodes (28nm, 20nm or 14nm) will be assumed for the SoC scenario and full 3-D integration with Through Silicon Vias  (TSV) will be pursued for the 2020 SiP scenario. Students will be given all the necessary technology data (device performance, interconnect parasitics, wafer  and TSV/packaging costs, and also the expected yield data). The design objective is to deliver a product competitive to the leading products available on the market or anticipated in 5 years. The complete product design will be carried out focusing on the  processor cores, graphics and the embedded memories (including new generation memories in the 2020 scenarios).  System performance and power will be estimated using provided simulators for  specified benchmarks. The goal is to minimize the product cost by maximizing the number of good die per wafer while achieving competitive product performance and power objectives.  Prerequisites: 18664 or instructor permission
ECE18631 | Introduction to Information Security: Introduction to Information Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18631&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Kairu, Edwin description:Our growing reliance on information systems for daily activities, ranging from remote communications to financial exchanges, has made information security a central issue of our critical infrastructure. The course introduces the technical and policy foundations of information security. The main objective of the course is to enable students to reason about information systems from a security engineering perspective, taking into account technical, economic and policy factors. Topics covered in the course include elementary cryptography; access control; common software vulnerabilities; common network vulnerabilities; policy and export control laws, in the U.S., Japan, and elsewhere; privacy; management and assurance; economics of security; and special topics in information security.    Prerequisites: The course assumes a basic working knowledge of computers, networks, C and UNIX programming, as well as an elementary mathematics background, but does not assume any prior exposure to topics in computer or communications security. Students lacking technical background (e.g., students without any prior exposure to programming) are expected to catch up through self-study.
ECE18632 | Introduction to Hardware Security: Introduction to Hardware Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18632&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Mai, Kenneth prereq:(18240) and (18447 or 18341) description:This course covers basic concepts in the security of hardware systems. Topics covered include active and passive attacks, reverse engineering, counterfeiting, and design of hardware security primitives (e.g., random number generators, physical unclonable functions, crypto-processors). Lab sessions will give students hands on experience with performing attacks, developing countermeasures, and implementing secure hardware building blocks. Students are expected to have basic knowledge of digital logic and Register-Transfer Level (RTL) design, but no specific background in security/cryptography is necessary.
ECE18636 | Browser Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18636&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Jia, Limin description:The Web continues to grow in popularity as platform for retail transactions, financial services, and rapidly evolving forms of communication. It is becoming an increasingly attractive target for attackers who wish to compromise users systems or steal data from other sites. Browser vendors must stay ahead of these attacks by providing features that support secure web applications. This course will study vulnerabilities in existing web browsers and the applications they render, as well as new technologies that enable web applications that were never before possible. The material will be largely based on current research problems, and students will be expected to criticize and improve existing defenses. Topics of study include (but are not limited to) browser encryption, JavaScript security, plug-in security, sandboxing, web mashups, and authentication. The course will involve an intensive group research project focusing on protocols/algorithms, vulnerabilities, and attacks as well as several individual homework and programming tasks. Groups will perform a sequence of cumulative tasks (literature review, analysis, simulation, design, implementation) to address aspects of their chosen topic, occasionally reporting their results to the class through brief presentations, leading to a final report.
ECE18637 | Wireless Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18637&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Tague, Patrick prereq:(18330 or 15330 or 14741 or 18631 or 18730) and (14740 or 14760 or 18441 or 18741 or 15641 or 18756) description:With the surge of mobile device use, embedded system deployment, and development of always-connected devices, the underlying wireless communication and network systems are becoming more critical for everyday use.  Even though security and privacy have emerged as important focus areas for modern technology, the wireless links that connect our pervasive devices are still less understood from the perspectives of security and privacy than other system aspects.  This course will focus on the challenges in providing secure communication and network services in a variety of wireless systems and current and past approaches to manage these challenges.  Topic coverage will include vulnerabilities, attacks, security mechanisms, and trade-offs at various layers of the network protocol stack, from aspects of physical communication to application and service security issues; examples include jamming, MAC-layer misbehavior, selective packet dropping, decentralized trust and reputation, and cross-layer holistic attacks.  Systems of interest include (but are not limited to) personal devices, connected vehicles, embedded and IoT systems, wireless infrastructure, and ad hoc networks.  Class material will be largely based on recent and current research. In addition to individual homework assignments, students will participate in an intensive group project involving significant research, development, and experimentation.  Graduate standing is required to register for this course.
ECE18638 | Mobile and IoT Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18638&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Tague, Patrick prereq:(18631 or 18730 or 14741) and (14740 or 18756 or 15641) description:For many people, mobile and embedded devices have become an essential part of life and work.  As such devices represent many and varied combinations of technologies, they have unique security and privacy issues that potentially impact users, developers, service providers, manufacturers, and regulators.  This course will focus on various aspects of security and privacy that are faced by mobile and Internet of Things devices, including aspects of wireless communication and networking, mobile computing, data analytics, security, and privacy.  The course will include studies of security and privacy aspects of networking (including telecom, enterprise, personal, etc.), applications, and data analytics as relevant to mobile and embedded/IoT devices.  One of the main goals of the course is to improve knowledge and awareness of security issues faced by mobile application developers, embedded system builders, and smart system designers.  Material will cover standards, best practices, and research challenges in both deployed and emerging systems.  Topics of study include (but are not limited to) telecom protocols and vulnerabilities; mobile/IoT network security; security and privacy in edge computing; mobile application security; and location and activity privacy.  In addition to individual homework assignments, students will participate in an intensive group project involving significant research, development, and experimentation.  Graduate standing is required to register for this course.
ECE18639 | Policies of the Internet | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18639&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Peha, Jon description:This course will address public policy issues related to the Internet. This may include policy issues such as network neutrality and the open Internet, Internet governance and the domain name system (and the role of the United Nations), copyright protection of online content, regulation of indecency and pornography, universal access to Internet and Internet as a human right, government surveillance of the Internet, Internet privacy and security, and taxation of electronic commerce.  It will also teach some fundamentals of Internet technology.  Because these are inherently interdisciplinary issues, the course will include detailed discussions of technology, economics, and law, with no prerequisites in any of these areas. Senior or graduate standing required.
ECE18640 | Hardware Arithmetic for Machine Learning | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18640&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Blanton, Ronald prereq:18240 description:In this course, students explore the techniques for designing high-performance digital circuits for computation along with methods for evaluating their characteristics. We begin by reviewing number systems and digital arithmetic along with basic arithmetic circuits such as ripple-carry adders. From there, we move to more complex adders (carry-look-ahead, carry-skip, carry-bypass, etc.), multipliers, dividers, and floating-point units. For each circuit introduced, we will develop techniques and present theory for evaluating their functionality and speed. Other methods will be described for analyzing a circuits power consumption, testability, silicon area requirements, correctness, and cost. In addition, we will utilize various CAD tools to evaluate the circuits described. Finally, advanced timing and clocking concepts will be investigated. For example, the notion of clock skew will be introduced and its impact on clock period for sequential circuits will be analyzed. We will also learn how to analyze and design asynchronous circuits, a class of sequential circuits that do not utilize a clock signal.  Course projects focus on key arithmetic aspects of various machine learning algorithms including: K-nearest neighbors, neural networks, decision trees, and support vector machines.  *Note: Although students in 18-340 and 18-640 will share lectures, labs, and recitations, students in 18-340 and 18-640 will receive different homework assignments, design projects, and exams. In some cases 18-640 students will also have different or additional lab sessions. The homework assignments, design projects, and exams that are given to the students registered for 18-640 will be more challenging than those given to the students registered for 18-340 in that they will have more complex designs, involve additional theoretical analysis, and have more stringent specifications (e.g., in area, power, performance, and robustness).
ECE18641 | Design Patterns for Smart Phone DevelopmentThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18641&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bishop, Mary description:This course provides an intensive exploration of computer programming by reviewing the basics of Object-Orientated programming and moving quickly to advanced programming using design patterns and a multi-tiered architecture. As part of the course work, students will learn smartphone development and how to apply the learned programming techniques to create extensible, reusable and quality software. It is intended for masters students who have had some prior, but perhaps limited, programming experience in Java or another object-oriented programming language; it is not intended as a first course in programming.
ECE18642 | Embedded System Software Engineering | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18642&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Koopman, Philip prereq:18349 description:In a very real sense, embedded software is what makes our everyday world function. From self-driving cars to chemical processing plant equipment, and from medical devices to the electric grid, embedded software is everywhere. You already know how to write code for a microcontroller. Now, learn software quality, safety, and security skills that are required to make embedded systems that can handle the messiness of the real world. This course provides in-depth coverage of the topics that are essential to the success of embedded software projects based on case studies of industry project teams that have suffered or failed. Students will learn about a variety of topics including: lightweight but high quality embedded software processes, technical best practices for embedded software, effective testing and validation, causes of software system failures, software for safety-critical systems, and embedded-specific aspects of software security. The material will generally be broken up into a set of four related topics each week, with one assignment per topic weekly, involving a combination of programming assignments, tool use experiences, and research questions to get hands-on experience at dealing with the types of problems that are encountered in industry embedded projects. We assume you already know how to code in C and understand the basics of microcontrollers. This course is about getting you ready to build industry-strength embedded projects.  Undergraduate students are required to take 18349 prior to enrolling in this course.  Graduate students are strongly encouraged to take 18-600/15-213/15-513/18-213 before or concurrently with this course.
ECE18643 | Reconfigurable Logic: Technology, Architecture and ApplicationsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18643&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Hoe, James prereq:18341 or 18447 description:Three decades since its original inception as a lower-cost compromise to ASIC, modern Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs) are versatile and powerful systems-on-a-chip for many applications that need both hardware level efficiency and the flexibility of reprogrammability.  More recently, FPGAs have also emerged as a formidable computing substrate with applications ranging from data centers and mobile devices.  This course offers a comprehensive coverage of modern FPGAs in terms of technology, architecture and applications.  The coverage will also extend into on-going research investigations of future directions.  Students will take part in a substantial design projects applying the latest FPGA platforms to compute acceleration.  Register-Transfer Level (RTL) hardware design experience is required.
ECE18644 | Special Topics in Computer Systems:: Mobile Hardware for Software Engineers | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18644&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Zhang, Pei description:This course covers applications of mobile hardware systems and the hardware associated with these systems. The course enables students 1) to analyze the implications of mobile hardware capabilities and restrictions in order to plan and develop mobile applications, 2) to propose and justify new ideas in the mobile space, and 3) to expose students to a range of mobile systems. Students will be able to devise and interface simple hardware additions to enable new applications. The course covers the elements of embedded systems development, such as hardware fundamentals, system development, as well mobile topics such as power management, machine-to-machine communication, and applications. Student teams will undertake small HW/SW interfacing projects on Arduino to sharpen their experience, and shape and build a novel application with the faculty. Unlike a conventional hardware course, the course would instead focus on the system and software implications, rather than the hardware components (i.e. CPU and radio).  Prerequisites: Some understanding of basic electrical terminology; Java programming and C programming desired
ECE18645 | How to Write Fast Code | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18645&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Lane, Ian description:The fast evolution and increasing complexity of computing platforms pose a major challenge for developers of high performance software for engineering, science, and consumer applications: it becomes increasingly harder to harness the available computing power. Straightforward implementations may lose as much as one or two orders of magnitude in performance. On the other hand, creating optimal implementations requires the developer to have an understanding of algorithms, capabilities and limitations of compilers, and the target platforms architecture and microarchitecture. This interdisciplinary course introduces the student to the foundations and state-of-the-art techniques in high performance software development using important functionality such as linear algebra kernels, transforms, filters, and others as examples. The course will explain how to optimize for the memory hierarchy, take advantage of special instruction sets, and how to write parallel code for multicore, manycore, and cluster platforms, based on state-of-the-art research. Further, a general strategy for performance analysis and optimization is introduced that the students will apply in group projects that accompany the course. Finally, the course will introduce the students to the recent field of automatic performance tuning.      Prerequiste: Senior ECE or CS undergraduate student or higher, solid C programming skills.
ECE18647 | *Renumbered to 18744* Connected Embedded Systems ArchitectureThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18647&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Iannucci, Robert description:This course focuses on the systems architecture aspects of building scalable systems from lots of embedded devices that connect to the cloud.  We will address back-end server architectures for such systems, protocols and abstraction techniques that allow systems to be made of heterogeneous devices, authentication  security, fault tolerance  resilience to failure, semi-connectedness, performance issues, and distributed programming  sync.  As part of the course, we will build some scalable systems, with either real or artificial load.
ECE18648 | Embedded Real-Time Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18648&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Rajkumar, Ragunathan prereq:(15213 or 18213) and (18447) description:Real-time embedded systems pervade many aspects of modern life ranging from household appliances, transportation and motion control systems, medical systems and devices, robotics, multimedia and mobile communications, video-games, energy generation/distribution/management, to aerospace and defense systems. This course has three complementary goals. One, it will cover the core concepts and principles underlying these systems, including resource management, scheduling, dependability and safety. Implications to multi-core platforms, SoCs, networks and communication buses will also be discussed. Mathematical models and analysis techniques will be presented. Two, the course will offer hands-on experience with implementing real-time embedded systems on realistic platforms. This will be facilitated by detailed discussions of hardware-software interfaces, concurrency and communications. Finally, application-level concepts such as signal processing, image processing, computer vision, sensor fusion and feedback control will complete an overview of the breadth and depth of real-time embedded systems. Knowledge of the C programming language, basic computer architecture and an assembly language will be assumed.
ECE18650 | Policies of Wireless Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18650&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Peha, Jon description:This course will address public policy issues related to wireless systems.  It investigates policies related to a wide variety of emerging wireless systems and technologies, including current and next-generation cellular systems, wifi and white space devices, emerging methods of accessing spectrum, communications systems for emergency responders (firefighters, police, emergency medical services), current and next-generation television, and satellite communications. This can include the government role in facilitating the creation of infrastructure, in advancing competition among broadcasters and communications service providers, in using scarce spectrum efficiently, in promoting public safety and homeland security, and in protecting privacy and security. Because these are inherently interdisciplinary issues, the course will include detailed discussions of technology, economics, and law, with no prerequisites in any of these areas. This course is cross-listed as 18-650, 19-403, 19-713, and 95-824. Senior or graduate standing required.
ECE18651 | Networked Cyber-Physical Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18651&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Marculescu, Radu prereq:(18349) or (18213 and 18240) description:Cyber-physical systems (CPS) represent a new class of systems that bring together sensing, computation, communication, control and actuation to enable continuous interactions with physical processes. This integration of networked devices, people, and physical systems provides huge opportunities and countless applications in biology and healthcare, automotive and transportation, power grids and smart buildings, social and financial markets, etc. Hence, CPS need to provide real-time efficiency, adaptability, optimality, security and robustness to natural disasters or targeted attacks. While the focus on embedded systems relies on building computational models for specific applications, CPS need a multidisciplinary approach and a more general computational paradigm such that more-direct interactions between the system and physical world become possible.  This course is primarily an in-depth introduction to networked CPS with an emphasis on methods for modeling, design, and optimization. Focus is on the dominant design paradigms like low-power and communication-centric design. Topics to be covered include: physical processes, models of concurrency, sensing and workload modeling, human behavior modeling, data-driven modeling, networking at micro- and macro-scale, system-wide resources management, programming, validation and integration. From a practical standpoint, students will directly experiment with hardware prototypes and software tools to explore concrete CPS examples. By structure and contents, this class is primarily targeted to ECE students; it can also provide a valuable basis for interdisciplinary research to students in CS and related disciplines.
ECE18652 | Foundations of Software Engineering: Foundations of Software Engineering | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18652&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bishop, Mary description:In this course, you will learn about software engineering paradigms that have shaped the software industry over the past few decades. You will be exposed to fundamental disciplines of software engineering as well as engineering practices that crosscut system, project, and user perspectives. You will learn to iteratively define requirements, and architect, design, implement, integrate, test, and deploy a solution. You will work on self-organizing teams and manage the work collaboratively. You will also learn to solve a real problem subject to multiple constraints while keeping the stakeholders involved throughout the lifecycle and balancing the underlying engineering tradeoffs. The topics are applied in the context of a semester-long group project.   Please note that this course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Software Engineering and Design course area requirement.  Prerequisites:  Basic software development experience with proficiency in at least one modern programming language and modern programming concepts. Prior to admission, students must successful complete a programming assignment to demonstrate familiarity with required software technologies.
ECE18653 | Software Architecture and Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18653&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Zhang, Jia description:Software Architecture and Design is a one-semester course, aiming to train our graduate students from software engineers toward becoming a Software Architect, who is the Technical Lead of a software project team. The primary objective of the course is to help students develop skills in designing, developing, and justifying reasonable software architecture for enterprise-scale software-intensive systems, considering both functional and non-functional requirements as well as contextual system environments. Core topics include: overview of software architecture, micro architectural patterns (so-called design patterns) and macro architectural patterns (i.e., modern patterns), service oriented architecture, architectural modeling, viewpoints and perspectives, architectural analysis techniques, architectural tactics (QoS), agile architecture, and some advanced topics. Literature survey and study of state-of-the-art technologies, as well as both individual and group project work, are essential ingredients of this class. Research and practical projects build upon one another.  Please note that this course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Software Engineering and Design requirement.  Anti-requisites: 17-655 from CS Dept. Pre-requisites: 18-652
ECE18654 | Software Verification and Testing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18654&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Erdogmus, Hakan prereq:18652 and 18213 description:Verification and testing (VT) support software engineers and development teams in their endeavor to build dependable systems. These interrelated activities form the backbone of a high-quality software solution that performs its function as intended.  VT is no longer considered an exclusively backend phase undertaken by a separate quality assurance unit, vulnerable to availability of discretionary resources near project end. Rather, VT is a cross-functional discipline applied throughout the software lifecycle from beginning to end. As such VT is an integral and essential part of any sensible software development process. This course introduces the students to concepts, principles, theory, types, tools, and techniques of VT with exposure to both modern, widely-applicable approaches and traditional, formal techniques. Students will acquire sufficient depth and breadth in VT through a balanced coverage of topics. The course syllabus spans fundamentals such as VT principles, systematic testing, input space analysis, and test coverage; practical strategies such as test-driven development, unit testing, and test design; and formal approaches such as abstraction, model checking, static analysis, and symbolic execution.    Please note that this course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Analysis area core course requirement.    Please note that this course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Analysis area core course requirement.
ECE18655 | Service Oriented Computing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18655&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Zhang, Jia description:Service Oriented Computing (SOC) is a one-semester course that introduces how to build and leverage software systems as a service to facilitate reusability, scalability, availability, and interoperability, in a networked environment. SOC has been significantly changing the way how software systems and applications are analyzed, architected, designed, implemented, tested, evaluated, delivered, consumed, maintained and evolved. Its comprising techniques have enabled the emergence of the contemporary third-generation software engineering: Service Oriented Software Engineering (SOSE). In this course, key concepts and standards, core enabling technologies and innovative consulting methods, as well as major solution patterns, are captured in the whole lifecycle of SOSE. Research and practical projects build upon one another.  Please note that this course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Software Engineering and Design area requirement. Prerequisites: Proficiency with at least one modern programming language and in modern programming concepts.
ECE18656 | Data Intensive Workflow Development for Software Engineers | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18656&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Zhang, Jia description:Many software systems nowadays have become increasingly data intensive and data centered applications. Manipulating comprehensive datasets and heterogeneous data sources typically requires composing and executing a series of computational or data manipulation steps, called a workflow. A data-oriented workflow is a formal way of defining, automating, repeating and adapting multi-step computational procedures driven by data events. The primary objective of the course is to help students develop skills in engineering data-oriented workflows, in the context of service-oriented software engineering, big data, cloud computing, Internet of Things, social networking, and mobile computing. Core topics include: data-oriented workflow theory, models, languages, techniques, architectures, systems, tools; workflow discovery, reuse, recommendation, orchestrations and choreographies; workflow properties and data dependencies; data provenance capture, storage, retrieval, and mining; workflow execution, allocation, and optimization on cloud; workflow as a service, as well as collaborative data analytics on the Internet. Literature survey and study of state-of-the-art technologies, as well as both individual and group project work, are essential ingredients of this class. Research and practical projects build upon one another.  Please note that this course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Systems area requirement.
ECE18657 | Decision Analysis and Engineering Economics for Software Engineers | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18657&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Erdogmus, Hakan prereq:36217 and 18652 description:Engineering software systems entails continuously making resource and technical decisions at multiple levels subject to different sources of uncertainty, cost-benefit tradeoffs, historical data, and flexibility demands. This course will develop quantitative and modeling skills for economics-based and decision-theoretic reasoning in software engineering through a repertoire of techniques from several fields. Special consideration will be given to reasoning under uncertainty and empirical approaches to tackle a variety of software engineering decision-making problems, including technology, architecture, design, product, and process decisions. The analysis techniques covered will be illustrated through domain-specific examples. Analysis techniques that will be covered include Monte Carlo Simulation, Net Present Value, Expected Value of Information, Decision Tree Analysis, Real Options Theory, Utility Theory, and Analytic Hierarchy Process. Basic data analysis concepts, including descriptives, linear regression, correlation, and hypothesis testing will be explained and used.  Examples and fully-developed case studies will illustrate how these techniques can be combined to best leverage their strengths. The course has a practical focus, but includes coverage of the necessary background theories. Orientation is distinctly quantitative.  Knowledge of basic probability is required. Pre-requisites: 18-652 (can be taken concurrently)
ECE18658 | Software Requirements and Interaction Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18658&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Peraire, Cecile description:Good software systems should be engineered with usefulness and usability in mind. How can we define software systems addressing real users needs while achieving superior user experience?   This course addresses this challenge by drawing from two disciplines, requirements engineering and interaction design, in an integrated fashion. Students learn a systematic approach to requirements elicitation, envisioning, and just-in-time elaboration, while leveraging design-based ideation and validation.  Students apply this knowledge in the context of a semester-long project. Their goal is to define a set of concrete requirements for and create prototypes of a new software system. The system should address a real problem, satisfy real stakeholders needs, and provide a delightful user experience. Students leverage a variety of models and notations for specifying functional requirements, quality attributes, and design constraints. They leverage storyboarding and prototyping for designing the interactions between the users and the system. Students collaborate closely with real stakeholders in different settings for requirements elicitation, solution validation, and usability testing.   Please note that this course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Software Engineering and Design course area requirement.
ECE18659 | Software Engineering Methods | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18659&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Peraire, Cecile prereq:18652 description:There has been a rapid evolution of software engineering development methods over the past decades. From Waterfall to Iterative and Incremental, to Agile and Lean, we have witnessed waves of new methods, each adding significant value to the field. However, the plethora of available methods poses a challenge for software practitioners: Which method should be adopted on a specific software project?  Software Engineering Methods addresses this challenge by introducing students to emerging approaches for developing software-intensive systems. Given the vast spectrum of software development endeavors, these approaches aim at defining custom hybrid methods by focusing on software development principles and practices together with their applicability to specific project contexts. Students learn to analyze the context of a software project and recommend a custom hybrid development method that satisfies the projects specific needs.  Students apply this knowledge in the context of a semester-long project where the entire class works together as a team of teams. They define the optimal software development method for their project aimed at evolving an existing software system. They build new system increments by adopting their own method. They monitor their progress and reflect on the effectiveness of their approach and the need for continuous improvement.  This course is intended for ECE master students with a concentration in Software Engineering and will satisfy the Systems course area requirement.  Prerequisites: 18652 or instructor permission
ECE18660 | Optimization | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18660&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Fanti, Giulia prereq:18202 and 21241 and 36217 description:Many design problems in engineering (e.g., machine learning, finance, circuit design, etc.) involve minimizing (or maximizing) a cost (or reward) function. However, solving these problems analytically is often challenging. Optimization is the study of algorithms and theory for numerically solving such problems, and it underpins many of the technologies we use today.  This course is an introduction to optimization. Students will: (1) learn about common classes of optimization problems, (2) study (and implement) algorithms for solving them, and (3) gain hands-on experience with standard optimization tools. We will focus on convex optimization problems, but will also discuss the growing role of non-convex optimization, as well as some more general numerical methods. The course will emphasize connections to real-world applications including machine learning, networking, and finance. The course will involve lectures, homework, exams, and a project.  This course is crosslisted with 18460. Although students in 18460 will share lectures with students in 18660, students in 18460 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct design problems, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18660. Specifically, the homework assignments, design problems and exams that are given to the 18660 students will be more challenging than those given to the 18460 students.
ECE18661 | Introduction to Machine Learning for Engineers | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18661&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Joshi, Gauri prereq:18202 and 21127 and 36217 and 15122 description:This course provides an introduction to machine learning with a special focus on engineering applications. The course starts with a mathematical background required for machine learning and covers approaches for supervised learning (linear models, kernel methods, decision trees, neural networks) and unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction), as well as theoretical foundations of machine learning (learning theory, optimization). Evaluation will consist of mathematical problem sets and programming projects targeting real-world engineering applications.  This course is crosslisted with 18461. Although students in 18461 will share lectures with students in 18661, students in 18461 will receive distinct homework assignments, distinct programming projects, and distinct exams from the ones given to students in 18661. Specifically, the homework assignments, programming projects, and exams that are given to the 18661 students will be more challenging than those given to the 18461 students.
ECE18663 | Hardware Architectures for Machine Learning | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18663&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Marculescu, Diana prereq:(18661 or 18461 or 10401 or 10601 or 10701) and (18340 or 18447) description:Machine learning is poised to change the landscape of computing in more ways than its broad societal applications. Indeed, hardware architectures that can efficiently run machine learning face increasing challenges due to power consumption or run time constraints that technology, platforms, or users impose. This course provides an overview of current advances in hardware architectures that can enable fast and energy efficient machine learning applications from the edge to the cloud. Topics include hardware accelerators, hardware-software co-design, and general or application specific system design and resource management for machine learning applications.
ECE18664 | ULSI Technology Status and Roadmap for System on Chips and System in Package | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18664&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Strojwas, Andrzej prereq:18422 and 18320 description:This course provides the necessary background for the state-of-the art technologies utilized by the leading edge products covering full spectrum of market drivers from mobile platforms, microprocessors, game chips to the highest performance systems for enterprise solutions computing. We will present all key components of such systems, i.e., logic, analog/RF and embedded memories. Then we present the technology roadmap for the upcoming generations in terms of device architecture options for logic devices (FinFET, Nanowire and Tunnel FET) and memories (Phase Change Memory , Resistive RAM and Magnetic RAM/Spin-Transfer Torque RAM) from the device level all the way to the system level specifications. The last part of the class will be devoted to the system integration issues, namely 3-dimensional integration approaches.   This course is designed for MS and PhD students from diverse areas: System/Hardware Design, Circuits and Devices/Nanofabrication and is aimed at bridging the gap among these areas.
ECE18687 | Analytical Performance Modeling &amp; Design of Computer Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18687&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Yagan, Osman prereq:36217 description:In designing computer systems one is usually constrained by certain performance  requirements. For example, certain response times or throughput might be required of the system. On the other hand, one often has many choices: One fast disk, or two slow ones? What speed CPU will suffice? Should we invest our money in more buffer space, or a faster processor? Which migration policy will work best? Which task assignment policy will work best? How can we redesign the scheduling policy to improve the system performance? Often answers to these questions are counter-intuitive. Ideally, one would like to have answers to these questions before investing the time and money to build a system. This class will introduce students to analytic stochastic modeling with the aim of answering questions such as those above. Topics covered include Operational Laws, Markov Chain Theory, Queuing Theory, Modeling Empirical Loads, Simulations, and Management of Server Farms.
ECE18690 | Introduction to Neuroscience for Engineers | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18690&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Moya, Linda prereq:42101 or 18100 description:The first half of the course will introduce engineers to the neurosciences from  the cellular level to the structure and function of the central nervous system (CNS) vis--vis the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and include a study of basic neurophysiology; the second half of the course will review neuroengineering methods and technologies that enable study of and therapeutic solutions for diseases or damage to the CNS.  A goal of this course is to provide a taxonomy of neuroengineering technologies for research or clinical application in the neurosciences.  This course is cross listed with 42-630
ECE18697 | Statistical Discovery and LearningThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18697&SEMESTER=F18 | description:This course is designed to give students a thorough grounding in the methods, theory, mathematics and algorithms needed to do research and applications in machine learning. The topics of the course draw from machine learning, classical statistics, data mining, Bayesian statistics and information theory and other areas. This course is project-oriented and is intended to give students abundant hands-on experience with different machine learning algorithms. Students who have already taken CS 10-701/15-781 Machine Learning should not take this course.
ECE18698 | Neural Signal Processing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18698&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Yu, Byron description:The brain is among the most complex systems ever studied. Underlying the brains ability to process sensory information and drive motor actions is a network of roughly 1011 neurons, each making 103 connections with other neurons. Modern statistical and machine learning tools are needed to interpret the plethora of neural data being collected, both for (1) furthering our understanding of how the brain works, and (2) designing biomedical devices that interface with the brain. This course will cover a range of statistical methods and their application to neural data analysis. The statistical topics include latent variable models, dynamical systems, point processes, dimensionality reduction, Bayesian inference, and spectral analysis. The neuroscience applications include neural decoding, firing rate estimation, neural system characterization, sensorimotor control, spike sorting, and field potential analysis.    Prerequisites: 18-290; 36-217, or equivalent introductory probability theory and random variables course; an introductory linear algebra course; senior or graduate standing. No prior knowledge of neuroscience is needed
ECE18701 | Technical Writing for Engineers: Linguistic Foundations | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18701&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Wright, Heidi description:Mini 1 (Linguistic Foundations) is designed for engineering students who are preparing for taking Qualifying exams. We will review the structure of Quals that have succeeded and Quals that have been less successful. Students will learn the linguistic foundations of successful overview papers (like those required in Qualifying exams). They will learn the linguistic basis of appropriate citation and the competent elaboration of the work of others. They will learn effective linguistic practices of transitioning from the work of others to their own work and elaborating their own work. They will learn principles of concision, character/action, topical coherence, cohesion, and emphasis, principles that work together to provide the written portion of a Qualifying exam with an easy flow and readability. They will learn how this system of principles can help them detect gaps in knowledge they will need to fill in by the time of the oral examination, if not in the written portion of the Qual itself. To the greatest extent possible, students will learn to apply these linguistic principles on the written portion of the Quals they are preparing that semester or have prepared in previous semesters.  Prerequisites:  ECE PhD standing is required.
ECE18702 | Technical Writing for Engineers: Genre Foundations | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18702&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Wright, Heidi description:Mini 2 (Genre Foundations) is designed for engineering students ready to focus on archival genres that report new knowledge, genres including but not limited to conference papers and journal publications. Students will learn principles of academic novelty and its history in the Royal Society. We will use customized software that give students a zoomed-in look at the impressive variety through which introductions establish significance and how they open a gap that the authors research was designed to fill. We will overview the important genre features and functions of the various sections of the archival paper. Students are expected to bring to the course archival documents they are currently preparing to submit. Students will use the mini to execute a systematic revision of their document based on the genre functions and features discussed.  Prerequisites: ECE PhD standing is required.
ECE18709 | Advanced Cloud Computing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18709&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Ganger, GregorySakr, MajdAmvrosiadis, Georgios prereq:18213 or 18600 or 15619 or 15513 or 15213 description:Computing in the cloud has emerged as a leading paradigm for cost-effective, scalable, well-managed computing. Users pay for services provided in a broadly shared, power-efficient datacenter, enabling dynamic computing needs to be met without paying for more than needed. Actual machines may be virtualized into machine-like services, abstract programming platforms, or application-specific services, with the cloud infrastructure managing sharing, scheduling, reliability, availability, elasticity, privacy, provisioning and geo-replication.  This course will survey the aspects of cloud computing through about 30 papers and articles, executing cloud computing tasks on a state-of-the-art cloud computing service, and implementing a change or feature in a state-of-the-art cloud computing framework. There will be no final exam, but there will be one or two in-class exams. Grades will be about 50 project work and about 50 examination results.
ECE18712 | Elements of Photonics for Communication Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18712&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Towe, Elias prereq:18300 and 18310 and  (18402 or 33439) description:Please see the ECE website for a full course description of this course.    http://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/items/18712.html    Prerequisites: 18-300 and 18-310 and (18-402 or 33-439) and senior or graduate standing.
ECE18721 | Advanced Analog Integrated Circuits Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18721&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Carley, L. prereq:18623 description:This course will familiarize students with advanced analog integrated circuit design issues. Analog circuit design issues play an important role in creating modern ICs.  First and foremost, analog circuits act as the interface between digital systems and the real world. They act to amplify and filter analog signals, and to convert signals from analog to digital and back again.  These analog interfaces appear in all communications devices (e.g., cell phones)   both to condition the transmitted signal and as sensitive receivers.  In addition, these analog interfaces appear in sensors (e.g., accelerometer). The goal of this course is to familiarize students with some of the advanced analog circuit design ideas that are involved in these tasks.  Specific topics will include analog filtering (continuous-time and discrete-time), sample-and-hold amplifiers, analog-to-digital converters, digital-to-analog converters.    Prerequisites: 18-623 (was 18-523 before Fall 2005) and senior or graduate standing.
ECE18723 | RFIC Design and Implementation: RF Integrated Circuit Design and Implementations | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18723&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Carley, L. prereq:18623 or 18421 description:This course covers the design and analysis of radio-frequency integrated systems at the transistor level using state of the art CMOS and bipolar technologies. It focuses on system-level trade-offs in transceiver design, practical RF circuit techniques, and physical understanding for device parasitics. Accurate models for active devices, passive components, and interconnect parasitics are critical for predicting high-frequency analog circuit behavior and will be examined in detail. The course will start with fundamental concepts in wireless system design and their impact on design trade-offs in different transceiver architectures. Following that, RF transistor model, passive matching networks will be discussed. Noise analysis and low-noise amplifier design are studied next. The effects of nonlinearity are treated along with mixer design techniques. Practical bias circuit for RF design will be illustrated. Then, the importance of phase noise and VCO design will be considered together. The course will conclude with a brief study of frequency synthesizer and power amplifier design. Senior or graduate standing required.
ECE18730 | Introduction to Computer Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18730&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Gligor, Virgil prereq:15214 description:This course provides a principled introduction to techniques for defending against hostile adversaries in modern computer systems and computer networks. Topics covered in the course include operating system security; network security, including cryptography and cryptographic protocols, firewalls, and network denial-of-service attacks and defenses; user authentication technologies; security for network servers; web security; and security for mobile code technologies, such as Java and Javascript. More advanced topics will additionally be covered as time permits, such as: intrusion detection; techniques to provide privacy in Internet applications; and protecting digital content (music, video, software) from unintended use.  Anti-requisites:    18-631 and 18-487
ECE18731 | Network Security | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18731&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Sekar, Vyas prereq:18631 or 18330 or 14741 or 18730 description:Some of todays most damaging attacks on computer systems involve exploitation of network infrastructure, either as the target of attack or as a vehicle to advance attacks on end systems. This course provides an in-depth study of network attack techniques and methods to defend against them. The course will cover topics spanning five broad themes: (1) infrastructure topics such as firewalls, network intrusion detection, secure routing protocols, and recent advances such as software-defined networking; (2)network attacks such as denial of service (DoS) and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, worm and virus propagation; (3)analysis and inference topics such as network forensics and attack economics; (4) user related topics such as authentication, anonymity and censorship resilience; and (5) new technologies related to next-generation networks, and cellular and wireless networks.  Students in 18-334 will share lectures and homeworks with students in 18-731. However, 18-731 will have additional requirements not shared by 18-334, including the requirement to produce scribe notes and to practice and demonstrate the ability to read and summarize scientific papers on the topics covered by the course.
ECE18732 | Secure Software Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18732&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bauer, Ljudevit prereq:18330 or 18631 or 18730 or 14741 description:Poor software design and engineering are the root causes of most security vulnerabilities in deployed systems today. Moreover, with code mobility now commonplace--particularly in the context of web technologies and digital rights management--system designers are increasingly faced with protecting hosts from foreign software and protecting software from foreign hosts running it. This class takes a close look at software as a mechanism for attack, as a tool for protecting resources, and as a resource to be defended. Topics covered include the software design process; choices of programming languages, operating systems, databases and distributed object platforms for building secure systems; common software vulnerabilities, such as buffer overflows and race conditions; auditing software; proving properties of software; software and data watermarking; code obfuscation; tamper resistant software; and the benefits of open and closed source development. Senior or graduate standing required.
ECE18733 | Applied Cryptography | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18733&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Gligor, Virgil prereq:18330 or 18631 or 18730 or 14741 description:A wide array of communication and data protections employ cryptographic mechanisms. This course explores modern cryptographic (code making) and cryptanalytic (code breaking) techniques in detail. This course emphasizes how cryptographic mechanisms can be effectively used within larger security systems, and the dramatic ways in which cryptographic mechanisms can fall vulnerable to cryptanalysis in deployed systems. Topics covered include cryptographic primitives such as symmetric encryption, public key encryption, digital signatures, and message authentication codes; cryptographic protocols, such as key exchange, remote user authentication, and interactive proofs; cryptanalysis of cryptographic primitives and protocols, such as by side-channel attacks, differential cryptanalysis, or replay attacks; and cryptanalytic techniques on deployed systems, such as memory remanence, timing attacks, and differential power analysis. Senior or graduate standing required.
ECE18734 | Foundation of Privacy | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18734&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Datta, Anupam description:Privacy is a significant concern in modern society. Individuals share personal information with many different organizations - healthcare, financial and educational institutions, the census bureau, web services providers and online social networks - often in electronic form. Privacy violations occur when such personal information is inappropriately collected, shared or used. We will study privacy in a few settings where rigorous definitions and enforcement mechanisms are being developed - statistical disclosure limitation (as may be used by the census bureau in releasing statistics), semantics and logical specification of privacy policies that constrain information flow and use (e.g., by privacy regulations such as the HIPAA Privacy Rule and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), principled audit and accountability mechanisms for enforcing privacy policies, anonymous communication protocols - and other settings in which privacy concerns have prompted much research, such as in social networks, location privacy and Web privacy (in particular, online tracking  targeted advertising).
ECE18738 | Sports Technology | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18738&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Narasimhan, Priya description:The courses lecture content will cover background material on key aspects of sports technology, including topics such as computer vision, artificial intelligence, data mining, the physics of sports and understanding of real-world systems and guest lectures from experts in the field. The topics covered in depth will include the types of sensors and algorithms used in real-world systems deployments today, as well as new applications of the Internet of Things to different aspects of sports, including training, performance, coaching, etc. This course also comprises a semester-long project experience and research paper geared towards the development of skills to design realistic and practical embedded/mobile systems and applications that enhance various aspects of the training, coaching, playing and scouting of different sports, including football, hockey, baseball, soccer, etc. Students will work in teams on a project that will involve the hands-on design, configuration, engineering, implementation and testing of an embedded-system prototype of an innovative sports technology of their choice. Students will be expected to leverage proficiency and background gained from other courses, particularly with regard to embedded real-time principles, software systems and embedded programming. The project will utilize a synergistic mixture of skills in system architecture, modular system design, software engineering, subsystem integration, debugging and testing. From inception to demonstration of the prototype, the course will follow industrial project practices, such as version control, design requirements, design reviews, user studies and quality assurance plans. Advanced undergraduate or graduate standing required.
ECE18739 | Special Topics in Security:: Security and Fairness of Deep Learning | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18739&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Datta, Anupam prereq:18730 description:Please go to the ECE website to view Special Topics in Security course descriptions.    http://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/index.html
ECE18741 | Computer Networks | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18741&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Suresh Kumar, Swarun Kumar prereq:(36226 or 36212 or 36217) and (18213) description:The Internet has transformed our everyday lives, bringing people closer together and powering multi-billion dollar industries. The mobile revolution has brought Internet connectivity to the last-mile, connecting billions of users worldwide. But how does the Internet work? What do oft repeated acronyms like LTE, TCP, WWW or a HTTP actually mean and how do they work? This course introduces fundamental concepts of computer networks that form the building blocks of the Internet. We trace the journey of messages sent over the Internet from bits in a computer or phone to packets and eventually signals over the air or wires. We describe concepts that are common to and differentiate traditional wired computer networks from wireless and mobile networks. Finally, we build up to exciting new trends in computer networks such as the Internet of Things, 5-G and software defined networking. Topics include: physical layer and coding (CDMA, OFDM, etc.); data link protocol; flow control, congestion control, routing; local area networks (Ethernet, Wi-Fi, etc.); transport layer; and introduction to cellular (LTE) and 5-G networks. A final project asks you to a build a HTTP video server of your own.   This course is cross-listed with 18-441 - both editions will share Lectures and Recitations. However, students in the two courses will receive different exams and will have a different project. The students in the two versions of the course will be graded on a separate curve.
ECE18742 | Computer Architecture and Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18742&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Lucia, Brandon prereq:18600 or 18447 description:Historically, the performance and efficiency of computers has scaled favorably (according to Moores Law) with improvements at the transistor level that followed a steady trend (so-called Dennard scaling). Unfortunately, device scaling has hit a limit   on performance and power improvements dictated by physical device properties. To continue to make systems capable, fast, energy efficient, programmable, and reliable in this post-Dennard era, computer architects must be creative and innovate across the layers of the system stack.  This course begins with a recap of conventional, sequential computer architecture concepts.  We will then discuss the end of convention, brought about by the end of Dennard Scaling and Moores Law, and several trends that these changes precipitated.  The first trend is the wholesale shift to parallel computer architectures and systems, covering parallel hardware and software execution models, cache coherence, memory consistency, synchronization, transactional memory, and architecture support for programming, debugging, and failure avoidance.  The second trend is the shift to incorporating specialized, heterogeneous components into parallel computer architectures.  Topics will include reconfigurable architectures, FPGAs in the datacenter, ASIC accelerators, GPGPU architectures, and the changes to the system stack that these components demand. The third trend is the emergence of newly capable hardware and software systems and new models of computation.  Topics will include approximate and neuromorphic computing, intermittent computing, emerging non-volatile memory and logic technologies, and analog and asynchronous architectures, and may include future emerging topics.
ECE18743 | Energy Aware Computing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18743&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Marculescu, Diana description:This course provides a comprehensive coverage of topics related to energy aware and green computing. While it is widely recognized that power consumption has become the limiting factor in keeping up with increasing performance trends, static or point solutions for power reduction are beginning to reach their limits. This course is intended to provide an insight into: (i) power and energy consumption modeling and analysis; (ii) energy aware computing, i.e., how various power reduction techniques can be used and orchestrated such that the best performance can be achieved within a given power budget, or the best power efficiency can be obtained under prescribed performance constraints; and (iii) green computing in the context of large scale computing systems or smart grid-aware computing. Recommended: basic VLSI design, basic computer system organization, basic compiler design and OS knowledge.    Prerequisites: Senior or Graduate Standing.
ECE18744 | Connected Embedded Systems Architecture | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18744&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Iannucci, Robert prereq:18747 description:Connected Embedded Systems Architecture (CESA) is a one-semester lab-based course that addresses the core concepts of modern embedded systems with a particular emphasis on the emerging field of apps that span small, embedded devices (including wearable electronics, so-called Internet of Things devices, and mobile phones) to the cloud.  We will examine the evolution of the nature of IoT from the early days of wireless sensor networks to the future vision of federated, time-synchronized, scalable, virtualized fog computing platforms.   The course is designed to take a systems approach and, as such, will include relevant topics from both software (cloud, network, device) and hardware (network and device).  The course content is aimed at systems engineers who wish to architect, develop and deploy cloud-connected embedded systems in which the apps change, mature and evolve over time.  The course stresses the creation of engineering frameworks in which tradeoffs can be rationally made between computing and storage that should be done on coin-cell-powered devices vs. computing and storage that should be done in the network or in the cloud.
ECE18745 | Rapid Prototyping of Computer Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18745&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Siewiorek, DanielSmailagic, Asim description:This is a project-oriented course which will deal with all four aspects of project development; the application, the artifact, the computer-aided design environment, and the physical prototyping facilities. The class, in conjunction with the instructors, will develop specifications for a mobile computer to assist in inspection and maintenance. The application will be partitioned between human computer interaction, electronics, industrial design, mechanical, and software components. The class will be divided into groups to specify, design, and implement the various subsystems. The goal is to produce a working hardware/software prototype of the system and to evaluate the user acceptability of the system. We will also monitor our progress in the design process by capturing our design escapes (errors) with the Orthogonal Defect Classification (ODC). Upon completion of this course the student will be able to: generate systems specifications from a perceived need; partition functionality between hardware and software; produce interface specifications for a system composed of numerous subsystems; use computer-aided design tools; fabricate, integrate, and debug a hardware/software system; and evaluate the system in the context of an end user application. This course is cross-listed as 18540.
ECE18746 | Storage Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18746&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Ganger, GregoryAmvrosiadis, Georgios prereq:18213 description:This course covers the design, implementation, and use of storage systems, from the characteristics and operation of individual storage devices through the OS, database, and networking approaches involved in tying them together and making them useful to key applications demands and technology trends. Topics to be covered include: network-attached storage, disk arrays, storage networking, storage management, advanced file systems, disk performance enhancement, wide-area data sharing, and storage security.     3 hrs. lec.       The class will continue to be like previous years, with the same advanced content and high-level expectations.
ECE18747 | Wireless Device Architecture | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18747&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Iannucci, Robert description:Growth of the Internet of Things depends on semiconductor devices  systems-on-chip (SoC)  with significant computational, communications and sensing capabilities.  Integration of entire systems on one or a very small number of dies has made it possible to deploy hundreds of billions of end-points that will link the cyber world with the physical world.  At this scale, a key design requirement is that such devices can be handled at most once during their lifetime.  Batteries should be life-long, and reprogramming should be over-the-air.  How then should such devices be architected?  We begin by examining modern digital communications including modulation and coding schemes, basic RF subsystems and antennas.  We examine the computational structures that allow us to reduce communication to computation.  Anticipating that such devices will need to be highly programmable, we consider concepts from traditional computer architecture and their applicability to this energy-constrained domain. We also examine the rapid evolution of transducer technologies and how these are being integrated into SoCs.  Then, we consider how an architect can make tradeoffs across these domains to meet design objectives.  Students will take advantage of a purpose-built experimental platform called PowerDu that enables deep exploration of these topics in realistic applications. Background in computer architecture, signals and systems, and EM field theory is recommended.  Graduate standing is required to register for this course.
ECE18748 | Wireless Sensor Networks | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18748&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Rajkumar, Ragunathan prereq:18348 or 18349 or 15410 description:The use of distributed wireless sensor networks have surged in popularity in recent years with applications ranging from environmental monitoring, to people- and object-tracking in both cooperative and hostile environments.  This course is targeted at understanding and obtaining hands-on experience with the state of the art in such wireless sensor networks which are often composed using relatively inexpensive sensor nodes that have low power consumption, low processing power and bandwidth.  The course will span a variety of topics ranging from radio communications, network stack, systems infrastructure including QoS support and energy management, programming paradigms, distributed algorithms and example applications.  Some guest lectures may be given.        Each discussion-oriented lecture will be preceded by the reading of 1-2 papers, resulting in a rich collection of papers by the end of the semester.  Early in the semester, hands-on exercises will be used to teach the programming of FireFly sensor nodes by using the nano-RK power-aware sensor real-time operating system (RTOS) and using 802.15.4 radio communications.  Then, project groups of no more than 3 students will define, design, implement and test a sensor network project.  Final in-class project presentations will be supplemented by a written report.  A final exam may be conducted to evaluate the students understanding of the materials covered.  Grading criteria will include classroom participation, course project content and report, and a final exam.     Class size will be limited to 20 students or less.  Hands-on experience with network programming, operating systems and assembly language are essential.  Exceptions only with explicit permission of instructor.    Prerequisites: 15-213 and ((18-348 or 18-349) or 15-410), and senior or graduate standing.
ECE18749 | Building Reliable Distributed Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18749&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Narasimhan, Priya description:The course provides an in-depth and hands-on overview of designing and developing reliable distributed systems, throughout a system?s lifecycle, starting from fault-tolerant design and execution (replication, group communication, databases) to fault-recovery (fault-detection, logging, check-pointing, failure-diagnosis) for various classes of faults (crashes, communication errors, software upgrades). The course will cover real-world practices for reliability, supplemented by case studies of large-scale downtime incidents. The concepts will be taught in the context of contemporary cloud-computing platforms, and the course will include a hands-on project that involves the design, implementation and empirical evaluation of a reliable distributed cloud-based system. Students will be taught to write, review, and present a conference-style research paper by the end of the semester, with the goal of documenting the design, lessons learned and experimental results of their team project. Students can expect to learn about the reliability issues underlying cloud computing, the tools and best practices for implementing and evaluating reliability, and the strengths and weaknesses of current cloud-computing platforms from the perspective of reliability.  Prerequisites:  Graduate standing or instructor permission
ECE18750 | Wireless Networks and Applications | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18750&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Steenkiste, Peter prereq:18213 or 15213 or 18600 description:This course introduces fundamental concepts of wireless networks.  The design of wireless networks is influenced heavily by how signals travel through space, so the course starts with an introduction to the wireless physical layer, presented in a way that is accessible to a broad range of students. The focus of the course is on wireless MAC concepts including CSMA, TDMA/FDMA, and CDMA.  It also covers a broad range of wireless networking standards, and reviews important wireless network application areas (e.g., sensor networks, vehicular) and other applications of wireless technologies (e.g., GPS, RFID, sensing, etc.).   Finally, we will touch on public policy issues, e.g., as related to spectrum use. The course will specifically cover:   Wireless networking challenges  Wireless communication overview  Wireless MAC concepts   Overview of cellular standards and LTE   Overview of wireless MAC protocols WiFi, bluetooth and personal area networks, etc.  Wireless in todays Internet: TCP over wireless, mobility, security, etc.  Advanced topics, e.g., mesh and vehicular networks, sensor networks, DTNs, localization, sensing, etc. Although students in 18-750 will share Lectures and Recitations with students in 18-452, they will receive distinct homework assignments and exams from students in 18-452.  The main project will also be different.  The students in the two version of the course will also be graded on a separate curve.
ECE18751 | Applied Stochastic Processes | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18751&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Yagan, Osman prereq:18290 and 36217 description:Basic probability concepts : Probability space, simple and compound events, statistical independence, and Bayes Rule. Total Probability Concept; Bernoulli trials; Poisson Law. De Moivre-Laplace Theorem. Definition of a Random Variable (RV); Probability distribution of an RV: cumulative distribution function (CDF) and probability density function (PDF). Two Random Variables; several Random Variables. Functions of RV?s; conditional distributions; conditional expectations; joint distributions. Moments, generating functions, and characteristic functions of RVs. Chebyshev inequality. Estimation; linear estimation; minimum mean square estimation; and orthogonality principle. Limit theorems; Central Limit Theorem; Law of Large Numbers (both strong LLN and Weak LLN). Definition of a Random Process (RP). Different notions of stationarity. Poisson and Gaussian processes. Autocorrelation and Power Spectral Density (PSD) of an RP. Processing of random (stochastic) processes by linear systems. Ergodicity. Spectral analysis. Matched Filtering. Selected applications from telecommunications, data networking (queuing), Kalman filtering.
ECE18752 | Estimation, Detection and LearningThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18752&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Negi, Rohit prereq:36217 description:This course discusses estimation, detection, identification and machine learning, covering a variety of methods, from classical to modern.  In detection, the topics covered include hypothesis testing, Neyman-Pearson detection, Bayesian classification and methods to combine classifiers.  In estimation, the topics include maximum-likelihood and Bayesian estimation, regression, prediction and filtering, Monte Carlo methods and compressed sensing.  In identification and machine learning, topics include Gaussian and low-dimensional models, learning with kernels, support vector machines, neural networks, deep learning, Markov models and graphical models.
ECE18755 | Networks in the Real World | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18755&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Marculescu, Radu description:18-755 is a graduate-level course that focuses on networks and their applications to various natural and technological systems. Specifically, this class delves into the new science behind networks and their concrete applications technological, biological, and social systems, as well as various design synergies that exist when looking at these systems from a cyber-physical perspective.   By scope and contents, this is not just another class on ?networks?. Want to know how complex networks dominate our world? How communities arise in social networks? How group behavior dominates Twitter? How swarms of bacteria can navigate inside the human body?  How patterns of interaction can be identified in hardware and software systems? Want to work on cutting edge projects involving systems and synthetic biology? Or social networks? Or networks-on-chip and internet-of-things? Then this class is for you  Course requirements consist of a few homework assignments, a semester-long project, and in-class presentations of relevant papers. By structure and contents, this class targets primarily the computer engineering and computer science students, but it also provides a valuable foundation for interdisciplinary research to students in related disciplines.    Senior or graduate standing standing is required to take this course.
ECE18756 | Packet Switching and Computer Networks | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18756&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Kim, Hyong prereq:18345 description:This course is designed to provide graduate students an understanding of the fundamental concepts in computer networks of the present and the future. In the past, the scarce and expensive resource in communication networks has been the bandwidth of transmission facilities. Accordingly, the techniques used for networking and switching have been chosen to optimize the efficient use of this resource. These techniques have differed according to the type of information carried: circuit switching for voice and packet switching for data. It is expected that elements of circuit and packet switching will be used in the integrated networks. This course focuses on packet switching for computer networks and protocol design. Topics in the course include: computer networks over-view; OSI layers, queuing theory; data link protocol; flow control; congestion control; routing; local area networks; transport layer. The current networks and applications will be introduced through the student seminars in the last weeks of the course.     4 hrs. lec.     Prerequisites: 18-345 and senior or graduate standing.
ECE18757 | Network Management and Control | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18757&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Kim, Hyong prereq:18756 and 36217 description:This course provides an understanding of the principles of broadband networks. The broadband networks differ from currently existing communication networks in many aspects and these issues will be dealt with in the course. Broadband networks are designed to support many different services, ranging from low bandwidth (telemetry) to high bandwidth applications (digitized video). The course will cover the underlying concepts of the broadband networks, and expose the research problems in next generation networks. Many concepts (ATM, SONET, MPLS, high-speed switching architecture, high-speed network control, unified control plane (GMPLS), and optical networks) will be discussed. The course project will explore latest network technologies, design networking systems, and evaluate via simulation techniques.     4 hrs. lec.     Prerequisites: A course in probability; 18-756 and senior or graduate standing.
ECE18758 | Wireless Communications | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18758&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Negi, Rohit prereq:36217 or 36225 description:In this course, the communication problem will be introduced, and channel impairments such as noise, inter-symbol interference and fading will be described. Solutions to combat these impairments, based on digital communication theory, will be described. These will include signal space analysis, detection, equalization, coding and diversity. Examples drawn from communication standards will illustrate how the theory is implemented in practical communication systems.
ECE18759 | Wireless Networks | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18759&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Tonguz, Ozan prereq:(15441 or 18345) and (18391) description:In this course, we will do a quick review of wireless communications and networking principles which will be the basis of more advanced work and research. The emphasis will be on understanding the impact of mobility and connectivity that can be provided or supported by different wireless networks. To this end, wireless communications standards such as GSM (2G), 3G, 4G, and the ongoing work on 5G in addition to key wireless technologies such as Bluetooth, WiFi, Zigbee, RFID, and WiMax will be reviewed. Then, we will study the key papers in the following hot topics in wireless networking: 1) Ad Hoc Wireless Networks and Sensor Networks; 2) Self-organizing networks and adaptive complex networks; 3) Cognitive Networks; 4) Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks; 5) Social Networks; 6) The challenges of 5G wireless networks; 7) Internet of Things (IoT); 8) Role of Artificial Interference (AI ) and Machine Learning (ML) in wireless networks.
ECE18762 | Circuit Simulation: Theory and Practice | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18762&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Pileggi, Lawrence prereq:18320 and 21241 description:This course explores the models, numerical methods and algorithms that are used for simulation and optimization of circuits. The course begins with coverage of the algorithms that are used in the ubiquitous SPICE program and its many variants. This is followed by an overview of the numerous analog and digital simulation techniques that have followed since the introduction of SPICE. The course further covers some of the most recent modeling and simulation work including, but not limited to, model order reduction, harmonic balance methods, nonlinear macromodeling, compact device modeling, and statistical timing analysis. Finally, the use of circuit simulation algorithms for non-circuit problems will be explored. 4 hrs. lec.
ECE18765 | Digital System Testing and Testable Design | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18765&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Blanton, Ronald prereq:(15210) and (18240) and (18340 or 18341) description:For this course, time- and topic-indexed videos of lecture, homework, projects, etc. will be available from the online learning portal/website. In addition to these resources, two 1-hour live sessions are scheduled per week for recitation.  Each student is strongly urged to attend one of these two sessions each week, either remotely or in the classroom on the Carnegie-Mellon Pittsburgh campus.    This course examines in depth the theory and practice of fault analysis, test generation, and design for testability for digital ICs and systems. The topics to be covered include circuit and system modeling; fault sources and types; the single stuck-line (SSL), delay, and functional fault models; fault simulation methods; automatic test pattern generation (ATPG) algorithms for combinational and sequential circuits, including the D-algorithm, PODEM, FAN, and the genetic algorithm; testability measures; design-for-testability; scan design; test compression methods; logic-level diagnosis; built-in self-testing (BIST); VLSI testing issues; and processor and memory testing. Advance research issues, including topics on MEMS and mixed-signal testing are also discussed.      4 hours of lecture per week    Prerequisites: 18-240 and 15-211 and (18-340 or 18-341) Senior or graduate standing required.
ECE18771 | Linear Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18771&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Kar, Soummya prereq:18370 or 18474 description:A modern approach to the analysis and engineering applications of linear systems. Modeling and linearization of multi-input-- multi-output dynamic physical systems. State-variable and transfer function matrices. Emphasis on linear and matrix algebra. Numerical matrix algebra and computational issues in solving systems of linear algebraic equations, singular value decomposition, eigenvalue-eigenvector and least-squares problems. Analytical and numerical solutions of systems of differential and difference equations. Structural properties of linear dynamic physical systems, including controllability, observability and stability. Canonical realizations, linear state-variable feedback controller and asymptotic observer design. Design and computer applications to electronic circuits, control engineering, dynamics and signal processing. 4 hrs. lec.     Pre-Reqs:  18-470 or 18-474 and Graduate standing in CIT or MCS.
ECE18781 | Speech Recognition and Understanding | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18781&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Metze, Florian description:The technology to allow humans to communicate by speech with machines or by which machines can understand when humans communicate with each other is rapidly maturing. This course provides an introduction to the theoretical tools as well as the experimental practice that has made the field what it is today. We will cover theoretical foundations, essential algorithms, major approaches, experimental strategies and current state-of-the-art systems and will introduce the participants to ongoing work in representation, algorithms and interface design. This course is suitable for graduate students with some background in computer science and electrical engineering, as well as for advanced undergraduates. Prerequisites: Sound mathematical background, knowledge of basic statistics, good computing skills. No prior experience with speech recognition is necessary. This course is primarily for graduate students in LTI, CS, Robotics, ECE, Psychology, or Computational Linguistics. Others by prior permission of instructor.
ECE18785 | Data, Inference, and Applied Machine Learning | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18785&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:McSharry, Patrick description:Please see the ECE website https://www.ece.cmu.edu/ for more information. This course will provide the methods and skills required to utilize data and quantitative models to automate predictive analytics and make improved decisions. From descriptive statistics to data analysis to machine learning the course will demonstrate the process of collecting, cleaning, interpreting, transforming, exploring, analyzing and modeling data with the goal of extracting information, communicating insights and supporting decision-making. The advantages and disadvantages of linear, nonlinear, parametric, nonparametric and ensemble methods will be discussed while exploring the challenges of both supervised and unsupervised learning. The importance of quantifying uncertainty, statistical hypothesis testing and communicating confidence in model results will be emphasized. The advantages of using visualization techniques to explore the data and communicate the outcomes will be highlighted throughout. Applications will include visualization, clustering, ranking, pattern recognition, anomaly detection, data mining, classification, regression, forecasting and risk analysis. Participants will obtain hands-on experience during project assignments that utilize publicly available datasets and address practical challenges.
ECE18792 | Advanced Digital Signal Processing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18792&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Stern, Richard prereq:18491 and 36217 description:This course will examine a number of advanced topics and applications in one-dimensional digital signal processing, with emphasis on optimal signal processing techniques. Topics will include modern spectral estimation, linear prediction, short-time Fourier analysis, adaptive filtering, plus selected topics in array processing and homomorphic signal processing, with applications in speech and music processing.     4 hrs. lec.
ECE18793 | Image and Video Processing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18793&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Sankaranarayanan, Aswin prereq:18491 description:This course covers signal processing techniques specialized for handling 2D (images) and 3D (videos) signals. It builds upon 1D signal processing techniques developed in 18-290 and 18-491 and specializes them for the case of images and videos. In this class, you will learn fundamental tools and techniques for processing images and videos, and will learn to apply them to a range of practical applications.   This course provides the fundamentals for studying images and videos. We will develop signal models specific to images and videos, develop associated optimization techniques for solving restoration problems like denoising, inpainting, study specialized compression algorithms. Specific focus will be on transform-domain, PDE and sparsity-based models and associated optimization techniques. These formal techniques will be enriched via applications in mobile devices, medical image processing, and compressive sensing.
ECE18794 | Pattern Recognition Theory | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18794&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Savvides, Marios prereq:36217 description:Decision theory, parameter estimation, density estimation, non-parametric techniques, supervised learning, linear discriminant functions, clustering, unsupervised learning, artificial neural networks, feature extraction, support vector machines, and pattern recognition applications (e.g., face recognition, fingerprint recognition, automatic target recognition, etc.).     4 hrs. lec.     Prerequisites: 36-217, or equivalent introductory probability theory and random variables course and an introductory linear algebra course and senior or graduate standing.
ECE18795 | Bioimage InformaticsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18795&SEMESTER=S19 | prereq:18290 description:Bioimage Informatics (formerly Bioimaging)  12 units    This course gives an overview of tools and tasks in various biological and biomedical imaging modalities, such as fluorescence microscopy, electron microscopy, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound and others. The major focus will be on automating and solving the fundamental tasks required for interpreting these images, including (but not restricted to) deconvolution, registration, segmentation, pattern recognition, and modeling, as well as tools needed to solve those tasks (such as Fourier and wavelet methods). The discussion of these topics will draw on approaches from many fields, including statistics, signal processing, and machine learning. As part of the course, students will be expected to complete an independent project.     Prerequisites: 18-396 Signals and Systems
ECE18797 | Machine Learning for Signal Processing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18797&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Ramakrishnan, Bhiksha description:Signal Processing is the science that deals with extraction of information from signals of various kinds. This has two distinct aspects -- characterization and categorization. Traditionally, signal characterization has been performed with mathematically-driven transforms, while categorization and classification are achieved using statistical tools.     Machine learning aims to design algorithms that learn about the state of the world directly from data.     A increasingly popular trend has been to develop and apply machine learning techniques to both aspects of signal processing, often blurring the distinction between the two.     This course discusses the use of machine learning techniques to process signals. We cover a variety of topics, from data driven approaches for characterization of signals such as audio including speech, images and video, and machine learning methods for a variety of speech and image processing problems.    Prerequisites: Linear Algebra, Basic Probability Theory, Signal Processing and Machine Learning.     18-797 is a cross listing of 11-755 offered by LTI.
ECE18799 | Special Topics in Signal Processing: Applied Computer Vision | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18799&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Vernon, David description:Please go to the ECE Website to view Special Topics in Signal Processing course descriptions.    http://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/index.html
ECE18817 | Fundamentals of Semiconductors and Nanostructures | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18817&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Towe, Elias prereq:09511 and 09701 and 09702 and 18303 and 18310 and 18402 and 27770 and 33225 and 33234 description:This course is designed to provide students with a foundation of the physics required to understand nanometer-scale structures and to expose them to different aspects of on-going research in nanoscience and nanotechnology. Illustrative examples will be drawn from the area of semiconductor nanostructures, including their applications in novel and next-generation electronic, photonic, and sensing devices.  The course begins with a review of basic concepts in quantum physics (wave-particle duality, Schrdingers equation, particle-in-a-box, approximation methods in quantum mechanics, etc.) and then continues with a discussion of bulk three-dimensional solids (band structure, density of states, the single-electron effective-mass approximation). Size effects due to nanometer-scale spatial localization are then discussed within a quantum-confinement model in one-, two-, and three- dimensions for electrons. An analogous discussion for photons is also presented. The basic electronic, optical, and mechanical properties of the low-dimensional nanostructures are then discussed. A select number of applications in electronics, photonics, biology, chemistry, and bio-engineering will be discussed to illustrate the range of utility of nanostructures. Upon completion of the course, students will have an appreciation and an understanding of some of the fundamental concepts in nanoscience and   nanotechnology.  The course is suitable for first-year graduate students in engineering and science (but advanced undergraduates with appropriate backgrounds may also take it with permission from the instructor).     Prerequisites: 09-511, 09-701, 09-702, 18-303, 18-310, 18-402, 27-770, 33-225, 33-234 or familiarity with the material or basic concepts covered in these courses and senior or graduate standing.
ECE18819 | Special Topics in Applied PhysicsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18819&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Li, Qing prereq:18220 description:Please go the the ECE Website to view Special Topics in Applied Physics course descriptions.    http://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/index.html
ECE18843 | Mobile and Pervasive Computing | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18843&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Zhang, Pei prereq:15410 description:This is a course exploring research issues in the newly emerging field of mobile computing. Many traditional areas of computer science and computer engineering are impacted by the constraints and demands of mobility. Examples include network protocols, power management, user interfaces, file access, ergonomics, and security. This will be an advanced course in the truest sense --- most, if not all, the topics discussed will be ones where there is little consensus in the research community on the best approaches. The course will also offer significant hand-on experience in this area. Each student will have to present and lead the discussion on a number of papers. Students will work in groups of three under the guidance of a mentor on a hands-on project. Each student will also be required to write one of two documents: (a) a research proposal (similar in spirit to an NSF proposal) on an idea in mobile computing or (b) a short business plan for a commercial opportunity in mobile computing. Grading will be based on the quality of the presentations, the project, and the proposal or business plan.     Prerequisites: 15-410 and senior or graduate standing. Cross-Listed: 14-841
ECE18845 | Internet Services | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18845&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:O'Hallaron, David prereq:18213 or 18600 or 15213 or 15513 description:This course investigates the issues involved in providing scalable and highly available network services over the best-effort Internet. Examples of such services include Web servers, application servers, search engines, proxy caches, online auction systems, and remote visualization. Topics include network programming, server design, clustering, caching, proxies, remote execution, resource naming, discovery, and monitoring, and wide-area metacomputing. The course consists of lectures on existing technology, student presentations of research papers, and a project where students design and implement a significant network service.
ECE18847 | Special Topics in Computer Systems:: Neuromorphic Computer Architecture | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18847&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Shen, JohnSmith, James description:Please refer to the ECE website for descriptions of each topic: https://courses.ece.cmu.edu/
ECE18848 | Special Topics in Embedded Systems: Special Topics in Embedded SystemsThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18848&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Narasimhan, Priya description:Please refer to the ECE website for a full description of this special topic course.      http://www.ece.cmu.edu/undergraduate/guide/appendix-f.html
ECE18858 | Special Topics in Communications: Networking Lab | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18858&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Saint, Martin description:Please go to the ECE Website to view Special Topics in Communications course descriptions.      http://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/index.html
ECE18859 | Special Topics in Communications: Network Economics, Optimization, and LearningThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18859&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Joe-Wong, Carlee description:Please go to the ECE Website to view Special Topics in Communications course descriptions.      http://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/index.html
ECE18875 | Engineering and Economics of Electric Energy Systems | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18875&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Ilic, Jovan description:The course has two parts. The first part introduces basic components and networks used in the electric power industry. This is followed by systematic modeling of these components, as well as of the entire system. Methods for modeling and analyzing both system equilibria and dynamics are presented. Simulations and lab demos are given to simulate and analyze typical system blackouts. This is followed by introducing decision and control methods for preventing these problems, as well as for managing the system more reliably, securely and efficiently over broad ranges of its operating conditions. The emphasis is on IT, software and control (both distributed and coordination) for achieving pre-specified system performance. This part of the course will involve simulation demos and hands on studies in which students create their own power network, simulate it and assess for performance. The second part of the course will review the industry structure, the experience with deregulatio n, and economic issues concerning choice of generating fuel and technology, the costs of blackouts, and environmental discharges. The course will integrate engineering and economic aspects to examine the design, investment, and operations that satisfy public desires for low cost, nonpolluting, reliable, and secure power. Knowledge of basic electric circuits and/or basic economics is assumed.      3 hrs. lec., 1 hr. rec.    Prerequisites: Basic electric circuits and/or basic economics and at least graduate standing.
ECE18879 | Special Topics in Systems and Controls: Algorithms and Numerical Methods in Powers Systems Analysis and OptimizationThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18879&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Ilic, Jovan description:Please go to the ECE Website to view Special Topics in Systems and Controls course descriptions.       https://courses.ece.cmu.edu  Section M Optimization in Energy Networks https://courses.ece.cmu.edu/18879M
ECE18882 | Special Topics in Energy Systems: Energy Systems ModelingThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18882&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Williams, Nathaniel description:Please visit the ECE website to view Special Topics in Energy Systems course descriptions. https://courses.ece.cmu.edu
ECE18883 | Special Topics in Energy Systems: Power Systems Operations | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18883&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Rawn, Barry description:Please see the ECE website for a full course description describing the sections of this course.
ECE18899 | Special Topics in Signal Processing: Enterprise IoT in the Developing WorldThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18899&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Krogh, Bruce description:Please refer to the ECE Course Webpage (https://www.ece.cmu.edu/courses/) for a full description of this course.
ECE18901 | Graduate Seminar | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18901&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:None
ECE18902 | Graduate Seminar | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18902&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:None
ECE18903 | Graduate Seminar: ECE Grad Seminar | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18903&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:None
ECE18906 | Graduate SeminarThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18906&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:None
ECE18980 | M.S. Graduate Project | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18980&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:No course description provided.
ECE18983 | M.S. Teaching Assistantship | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18983&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:Full-time IMB students with graduate standing can apply to be IMB Teaching Assistants. IMB TAs work 10 hours a week and receive partial tuition reimbursement.     MS IMB students must complete the online TA application to be considered for a position.    See http://www.ece.cmu.edu/student/teaching.html for further information about the IMB TA program.
ECE18984 | M.S. Teaching AssistantshipThis Section Cancelled | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18984&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:Full-time IMB students with graduate standing can apply to be IMB Teaching Assistants. IMB TAs work 10 hours a week and receive partial tuition reimbursement.     MS IMB students must complete the online TA application to be considered for a position.    See http://www.ece.cmu.edu/student/teaching.html for further information about the IMB TA program.
ECE18989 | Introduction to Graduate Studies | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18989&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:The Introduction to Graduate Studies course is designed to increase awareness and understanding of academic integrity issues, Carnegie Mellon community standards and the ethical job search. This is done via various sessions/modules that are already offered via several entities throughout campus (such as the CPDC, ICC, and GCC). Topics covered include:  paraphrasing and citation, participating in the US classroom, avoiding plagiarism, unconscious bias, combating sexual violence on campus, finding jobs and internships, negotiation, communication, relationship building and other topics of interest.  The course culminates in students writing a reflection paper.  For international students, the paper should compare western academic and cultural standards to those of their home country.  For domestic students, the paper should be a reflection on CMUs community standards. Active participation in 5 sessions/modules in the above mentioned areas and the submission of the reflection paper will determine a pass/fail grade.
ECE18990 | Reading and Research | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18990&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:None
ECE18991 | ECE Graduate Teaching Internship | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18991&SEMESTER=F18 | instructors:Bain, James description:Two semesters of Teaching Internship are required for the ECE Ph.D. program.   Ph.D. students or M.S. students who intend to pursue a Ph.D. are eligible for the TI.     Students should obtain their advisors permission prior to applying for the TI.      Students must complete the online TA application to be considered for a position.  TIs are assigned to work 10 hours per week.     Registration of 12 units is required for each semester of teaching.    See http://www.ece.cmu.edu/student/teaching.html for further information about applying for a teaching internship position.
ECE18992 | ECE Graduate Teaching Internship | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18992&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:Two semesters of Teaching Internship are required for the ECE Ph.D. program.   Ph.D. students or M.S. students who intend to pursue a Ph.D. are eligible for the TI.     Students should obtain their advisors permission prior to applying for the TI.      Students must complete the online TA application to be considered for a position.  TIs are assigned to work 10 hours per week.     Registration of 12 units is required for each semester of teaching.    See http://www.ece.cmu.edu/student/teaching.html for further information about applying for a teaching internship position.
ECE18995 | Practicum in Electrical and Computer Engineering | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18995&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:None
ECE18996 | Internship one for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18996&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:tba
ECE18997 | Internship Two for Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18997&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:TBA
ECE18998 | Internship Three Electrical and Computer Engineering PhD Students | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18998&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:TBA
ECE18999 | ECE Alternative Teaching Assistantship | https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/courseDetails?COURSE=18999&SEMESTER=S19 | instructors:Bain, James description:Students will be apply to TA for this course after speaking with the Academic Services Center (coursehub@ece.cmu.edu) about any TAships which are not directly covered in the ECE TA Application Process. If a student plans to TA for a course and does not see the course listed in the application, they should apply to TA 18999.
