10 | Introductory Psychology |  | description:Lecture, four hours. General introduction including topics in cognitive, experimental, personality, developmental, social, and clinical psychology; six hours of psychological research and a grade of C or better required of all departmental premajors. P/NP or letter grading.
15 | Introductory Psychobiology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for nonmajors. Survey of genetic, evolutionary, physiological, pharmacological, and experiential factors affecting behavior. Using comparative approach where appropriate, emphasis on relevance of biological mechanisms to understanding of humans and their interaction with their environment. P/NP or letter grading.
19 | Fiat Lux Freshman Seminars |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Discussion of and critical thinking about topics of current intellectual importance, taught by faculty members in their areas of expertise and illuminating many paths of discovery at UCLA. P/NP grading.
20 | MATLAB Programming for Behavioral Sciences |  | description:Lecture, two hours; laboratory, one hour. Prior programming experience not required. Introduction to MATLAB and programming methods useful in experimental psychology. Reading and writing of code for conducting experiments, analyzing data, and modeling. P/NP or letter grading.
85 | Introduction to Cognitive Science |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Exploration of computer metaphor of mind as an information-processing system, focusing especially on perception, knowledge representation, and thought based on research in cognitive psychology, neuropsychology, and artificial intelligence. Many examples from visual information processing.
88A | Lower Division Seminar: Stress, Adaptation, and Coping |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Enforced requisite: course 10. Limited to freshmen. Physiological and psychological processes related to stresses and strains of daily living and potential relation of these processes to disease states. Examination of multifaceted nature of coping with stressors and exploration of strategies for stress management. May be repeated for credit. P/NP or letter grading.
89 | Honors Seminars |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to 20 students. Designed as adjunct to lower division lecture course. Exploration of topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities and led by lecture course instructor. May be applied toward honors credit for eligible students. Honors content noted on transcript. P/NP or letter grading.
89HC | Honors Contracts |  | description:Tutorial, three hours. Limited to students in College Honors Program. Designed as adjunct to lower division lecture course. Individual study with lecture course instructor to explore topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities. May be repeated for maximum of 4 units. Individual honors contract required. Honors content noted on transcript. Letter grading.
97 | Variable Topics in Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Enforced requisite: course 10. Study of selected topics in psychology at introductory level; seminar format designed for freshmen/sophomores. P/NP or letter grading.
98T | Social Hierarchies and Our Status in Groups: How They Impact Us, Inside and Out |  | description:
99 | Student Research Program |  | description:Tutorial (supervised research or other scholarly work), three hours per week per unit. Entry-level research for lower division students under guidance of faculty mentor. Students must be in good academic standing and enrolled in minimum of 12 units (excluding this course). Individual contract required; consult Undergraduate Research Center. May be repeated. P/NP grading.
100A | Psychological Statistics |  | description:Lecture, four hours. Requisites: course 10 with a grade of C or better, and one course from Computer Science 2, Mathematics 2, Program in Computing 10A, Statistics 10, or one term of calculus. Designed for premajors. Basic statistical procedures and their application to research and practice in various areas of psychology. Letter grading.
100B | Research Methods in Psychology |  | description:Lecture, two hours; laboratory, four hours. Enforced requisites: courses 10 and 100A, with grades of C or better. Introduction to research methods and critical analysis in psychology. Lecture and laboratory topics include experimental and nonexperimental research methods, statistical design and analysis as applied to a broad range of basic and applied research issues. P/NP or letter grading.
101 | General Psychology Laboratory |  | description:Lecture, one hour; laboratory, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B. General laboratory course for psychology students to acquire key concepts in psychology through active participation in enriched environment. Use of current technologies (e.g., Web-based teaching, interactive computer demonstrations) in challenging atmosphere to learn how mind works. Letter grading.
M107 | Asian American Personality and Mental Health |  | description:(Same as Asian American Studies M117.) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 10. Foundations of personality development and mental health among Asian Americans. Topics include culture, family patterns, achievements, stressors, resources, and immigrant and minority group status. P/NP or letter grading.
110 | Fundamentals of Learning |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Designed for juniors/seniors. Experimental findings on animal and human conditioning; retention and transfer of training; relation of learning and motivation. Intended to provide empirical basis for theory and research in this area. P/NP or letter grading.
111 | Learning Laboratory |  | description:Lecture, two hours; laboratory, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, 110. Designed for departmental majors. Laboratory experience with techniques in study of learning, especially with animals. Letter grading.
112A | Basic Processes of Motivated Behavior |  | description:Lecture, 90 minutes; discussion, 90 minutes. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 110. Designed for juniors/seniors. Examination of some basic processes underlying motivated behavior, stressing environmental determinants of behaviors such as feeding, drinking, and reproduction-related behavior. Discussion of physiological mechanisms that contribute to such behaviors. Consideration of topics such as reinforcement, acquired motivation, and drug addiction. Evaluation of evidence obtained in laboratory studies conducted with animals. P/NP or letter grading.
112B | Psychobiology of Fear and Anxiety |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 110. Recommended: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Presentation of biological and behavioral approaches to fear and anxiety, taken from laboratory and applied research. In addition to overview of major principles from each approach, emphasis on areas in which significant research advances have recently occurred. Examination of concordance and discordance between results from laboratory and applied research. P/NP or letter grading.
112C | Psychobiology of Anxiety and Depression |  | description:Lecture, two and one half hours; discussion, 30 minutes. Requisites: courses 110 and 115, or Neuroscience M101A, M101B, and M101C. Limited to juniors/seniors. Presentation of biological and behavioral approaches to anxiety and depression, taken from laboratory and applied research. In addition to overview of major principles from each approach, emphasis on areas in which significant research advances have recently occurred. Examination of concordance and discordance between results from laboratory and applied research. P/NP or letter grading.
112D | Animal Cognition |  | description:Lecture, 90 minutes; discussion, 90 minutes. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 110. Designed for juniors/seniors. Investigation of scientific study of cognition and behavior in animals. Topics include perception and attention, working and reference memory, spatial cognition, timing and counting, concept formation, and abstract reasoning. Most discussions focus on laboratory findings with animals, as viewed from evolutionary framework concerned with natural histories of animals. P/NP or letter grading.
115 | Principles of Behavioral Neuroscience |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: course 100A, Life Sciences 2 or 15. Not open to students with credit for course M117A. Designed for juniors/seniors. Nervous system anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, and their relationship to behavior. P/NP or letter grading.
116 | Behavioral Neuroscience Laboratory |  | description:Lecture, one hour; laboratory, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, 115. Designed for Psychobiology and Psychology majors. Laboratory experience with various topics in behavioral neuroscience. P/NP or letter grading.
M117A | Neuroscience: From Molecules to Mind -- Cellular and Systems Neuroscience |  | description:(Same as Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology M175A, Neuroscience M101A, and Physiological Science M180A.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, 90 minutes. Requisites: Chemistry 14C or 30A (14C may be taken concurrently), Life Sciences 2, Physics 1B or 1BH or 6B or 6BH. Not open for credit to students with credit for Physiological Science 111A. For Neuroscience and Physiological Science majors, grade of C- or better is required to proceed to Neuroscience M101B or Physiological Science 111B. Cellular neurophysiology, membrane potential, action potentials, and synaptic transmission. Sensory systems and motor system; how assemblies of neurons process complex information and control movement. P/NP or letter grading.
M117B | Neuroscience: From Molecules to Mind -- Molecular and Developmental Neuroscience |  | description:(Same as Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology M175B, Neuroscience M101B, and Physiological Science M180B.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, 90 minutes. Requisites: course 115 or M117A (or Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology M175A or Neuroscience M101A or Physiological Science M180A; Neuroscience majors must have grade of C- or better) or Physiological Science 111A, Life Sciences 3, 4 (4 may be taken concurrently). Molecular biology of channels and receptors: focus on voltage dependent channels and neurotransmitter receptors. Molecular biology of supramolecular mechanisms: synaptic transmission, axonal transport, cytoskeleton, and muscle. Classical experiments and modern molecular approaches in developmental neurobiology. P/NP or letter grading.
M117C | Neuroscience: From Molecules to Mind -- Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience |  | description:(Same as Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology M175C, Neuroscience M101C, and Physiological Science M180C.) Lecture, four hours; discussion, 90 minutes. Requisite: course 115 or M117A (or Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology M175A or Neuroscience M101A or Physiological Science M180A; Neuroscience majors must have grade of C- or better) or Physiological Science 111A. Neural mechanisms underlying motivation, learning, and cognition. P/NP or letter grading.
M117J | Biological Bases of Psychiatric Disorders |  | description:(Same as Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology M181, Neuroscience M130, Physiological Science M181, and Psychiatry M181.) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115 or M117A (or Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology M175A or Neuroscience M101A or Physiological Science M180A) or Physiological Science 111A. Underlying brain systems involved in psychiatric symptoms and neurological disorders, including schizophrenia, depression, bipolar disorder, obsessive/compulsive disorder. Provides basic understanding of brain dysfunctions that contribute to disorders and rationales for pharmacological treatments. P/NP or letter grading.
118 | Comparative Psychobiology |  | description:Requisite: course 115. Designed for junior/senior majors. Survey of determinants of species-specific behavior, including genetic influences and learning.
119A | Neuropsychopharmacology of Emotion and Cognition |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115 or M117C. Limited to juniors/seniors. Analysis of basic pharmacologic principles, with emphasis on neurochemical modulation of emotional regulation and cognitive processes in normal and diseased state. P/NP or letter grading.
119B | Human Neurophysiology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Exploration of biological basis of human cognitive processing, with emphasis on function of cerebral cortex.
119C | Cognitive Neuroscience |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115 or M117C. Understanding complex mental functions depends on interplay of cognitive psychology and behavioral neuroscience. Designed to provide advanced undergraduate students with current perspectives on how complex processes of mind may be understood using neuroscience techniques. P/NP or letter grading.
119D | Behavioral Neuropharmacology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Limited to juniors/seniors. Biochemical and neural basis of psychotropic drug action. Particular emphasis on pharmacological regulation of neurotransmission and relationship of these processes to mental disorders. P/NP or letter grading.
119E | Stress and Bodily Disease |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Psychobiological processes as they pertain to development of stress responses and disease states. Consideration of stress-related topics, including behavioral and pharmacological variables in stress and stress management.
119F | Neural Basis of Behavior |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Presentation of current data and theory concerning how neuron circuits produce behavior. Mechanisms of perception, response selection, motor pattern generation, learning, and motivation, with emphasis on operation of these processes in well-defined neural circuits in animals and humans. P/NP or letter grading.
119G | Brain, Mind, and Motion Pictures |  | description:Lecture, 90 minutes; screenings/discussion, two and one half hours. Requisite: course 115. Limited to juniors/seniors. Exploration of cognitive neuroscience of film from three perspectives: how advanced brain research is represented in films of period, how modern cognitive neuroscience explains experience of watching movies, and neuropsychology of acting in movies. P/NP or letter grading.
119I | Integration of Face and Brain |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisite: course 115 or M117C. Faces play major role in social interactions in both humans and nonhuman primates and in other animals as well. Exploration of neuroanatomical, neurophysiological, and neurofunctional underpinnings of face processing (attractiveness, emotional expressions, facial skin, identity recognition, based on empirical studies that use behavioral responses in neuroimaging techniques, in effects of types of brain damage, in physiological responses, and in psychopathological states. Discussion of evolutionary approaches to faces, as well as relationship between specific genetic mutations affecting both brain and facial appearance. P/NP or letter grading.
119J | Brain Bugs: Understanding Brain through Its Flaws |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115 or M117C. Designed for juniors/seniors. Psychology of brain flaws and limitations to understand how brain works by studying what it does well and understanding neuroscience of why brain is poorly suited to perform some tasks such as numerical calculations, memorizing lists and names, and making unbiased decisions. Topics include memory (types of memory, false memories, misinformation and memory, memory capacity) and cognitive biases (framing, anchoring, and temporal discounting). Exploration of underlying neural causes of brain flaws and limitations in context of brain's associative architecture. Basic neurophysiology, synaptic plasticity, cortical plasticity, neural basis of learning and memory, and some computational neuroscience. P/NP or letter grading.
119K | Neurophilosophy |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Philosophy of mind has relied on introspection and thought experiments to explore consciousness, self, and free will. Field of neurophilosophy employs findings and methods of neuroscience to investigate these seemingly impenetrable constructs. Provides students with foundation in neurophilosophy, which includes basic understanding of philosophy of mind, consideration of phenomena including consciousness, volition, and self, and examination of scientific methods available for studying these phenomena. Exploration of student experiences of world and themselves within and demonstrations of how alterations in brain functioning due to injury, psychedelic drugs, and dreaming result in alterations in these phenomena. P/NP or letter grading.
M119L | Human Neuropsychology |  | description:(Same as Neuroscience M119L.) Lecture, three hours. Recommended requisites: courses 115 (or M117A and M117C), 120A or 120B. Designed for juniors/seniors. Survey of experimental and clinical human neuropsychology; neural basis of higher cognitive functions. P/NP or letter grading.
119M | Neural Circuits of Learning and Memory |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Introduction to classical and current literature on mechanisms of learning and memory from individual brain systems to circuits. P/NP or letter grading.
M119N | Visual System |  | description:(Same as Neuroscience M119N.) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115 or Neuroscience M101A or Physiological Science 111A. Ability to image and analyze visual world is truly remarkable feat. Coverage of anatomy and physiology of visual processing from retina to visual cortex through lectures, extensive reading, and discussions. P/NP or letter grading.
M119O | Psychology of Aging |  | description:(Same as Gerontology M119O.) Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Aging refers to developmental changes occurring at end stages of life. Some alterations that occur represent improvement, others are detrimental. Examination of impact of aging process on mental phenomena and exploration of ways in which positive changes can be maximally utilized and impact of detrimental alterations minimized. P/NP or letter grading.
119P | Emerging Topics in Neuroscience |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 115. Emerging advanced lecture topics in neuroscience given by visiting speakers, with additional lectures by instructor on relevant background material. Reading of published scientific articles. P/NP or letter grading.
119Q | Psychobiology of Sleep and Dreams |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Review of measurement and comparison of sleep in mammals and submammalian species, circadian rhythms and circadian control of sleep, development and aging of sleep, neural and neurochemical control of sleep, effects of sleep deprivation, sleep in psychiatric disorders, human sleep disorders, and function of dreams. P/NP or letter grading.
119R | Neurobiology of Visual Cognition |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Review of some recent advances in understanding of neurobiology of visual cognition. Topics include how is visual information processed by brain to generate actions? How do we recognize objects? How do we perceive emotions displayed by other subjects? P/NP or letter grading.
119S | Neural Basis of Learning and Computing with Neurons |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Introduction to neural basis of learning and memory. Examination of current theories of what happens in brain when we learn and acquire new information. Introduction to how brain may use neural networks for learning and pattern recognition. How neural networks perform computations. P/NP or letter grading.
119T | Neural Basis of Emotion and Motivation |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115 or M117C. Limited to juniors/seniors. Neural basis of primary emotions, emotional regulation, and stress. Impact of emotion, stress, and arousal on motivated behaviors and cognitive processes. P/NP or letter grading.
119V | Brain and Art |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 115. Multiple forms of art express uniqueness of human brain and mind. Discussion of neural underpinnings of art in artist and viewer and links to evolutionary, biological, aesthetic, cognitive, and social roots of art. P/NP or letter grading.
M119X | Biology and Behavioral Neuroscience of Aging |  | description:(Same as Gerontology M119X.) Lecture, three hours. Designed for juniors/seniors. Biologic mechanisms of aging process and its terminal phase, death, have been increasingly studied in recent years. Establishment of what is known experimentally about biology and behavioral neuroscience of aging and evaluation of theories developed to account for this knowledge. P/NP or letter grading.
120A | Cognitive Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Designed for juniors/seniors. Survey of cognitive psychology: how people acquire, represent, transform, and use verbal and nonverbal information. Perception, attention, imagery, memory, representation of knowledge, language, action, decision making, thinking. P/NP or letter grading.
120B | Sensation and Perception |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Designed for juniors/seniors. Acquisition of information about physical world through basic sensory mechanisms and perceptual processes. Perception of objects, surfaces, space, motion, and events. Connections between information, computations, and biological mechanisms in vision, audition, and other systems. P/NP or letter grading.
121 | Laboratory in Cognitive Psychology |  | description:Laboratory, four hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, 120A or 120B. Designed for Psychology and Cognitive Science majors. Laboratory experience with methods and phenomena from research on human perception, memory, and cognition. P/NP or letter grading.
124A | Advanced Topics in Sensation and Perception |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 120A or 120B. Designed for juniors/seniors. Contemporary research and theory about visual and auditory perception. Topics include physiological mechanisms, psychophysical studies and models, and computational approaches. P/NP or letter grading.
124B | Visual Information Processing |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 120A or 120B. Exploration of issues in visual information, such as storage and representation of visual information in memory, pattern recognition, nature and role of attention in visual processing, word and picture recognition, object perception, and imagery. Possible consideration of developmental aspects. P/NP or letter grading.
124C | Human Memory |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 120A or 120B. Designed for juniors/seniors. Analysis of recent research on basic processes and structural components that comprise the human memory system. Discussion topics include practical implications of such research for instruction, marketing, and witness testimony. P/NP or letter grading.
124D | Consciousness: Current Debates |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 100B, 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Review of current issues in research on cognitive neuroscience of consciousness, with focus on modern theories of conscious perception, especially in visual modality so as to reflect its dominance in consciousness research. P/NP or letter grading.
124E | Language and Cognition |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, and 120A or 120B. Designed for juniors/seniors. Recent theories of language and cognition; nature of categories, feedback, and error detection in language and cognition; modularity; ambiguity; knowledge acquisition; processes and representations underlying perception, production, attention, and awareness in language and cognition. P/NP or letter grading.
124F | Thinking |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 120A or 120B. Analysis of experimental studies of human categorization, reasonings, decision making, problem solving, creativity, and related topics. P/NP or letter grading.
124G | Cognitive Aging |  | description:Lecture, 90 minutes; discussion, 90 minutes. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 120A or 120B. Designed for juniors/seniors. Recent facts and theories on relations between normal aging and cognition, including perception, language comprehension, learning, memory, thinking, inhibitory processes in attention, sequential processes in action, general slowing phenomenon, and related neuropsychological issues. P/NP or letter grading.
124I | Cognitive Neuroscience of Memory |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 85 or 120A, and 115. Designed for juniors/seniors. Introduction to neural basis of learning and memory. Topics include cellular and molecular mechanisms of learning and memory, human amnesia and hippocampus, working memory and prefrontal cortex, procedural learning, emotional memory systems, and memory consolidation. P/NP or letter grading.
124J | Perception, Learning, and Learning Technology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisite: course 120A or 120B. Aspects of perception and cognition as they relate to learning and potential for learning technology. Basic knowledge about visual information processing, perceptual learning, knowledge representation, pattern recognition, attention, memory, and expertise, as well as research on learning, technology, and applications of perceptual and cognitive concepts in specific domains, with special focus on teaching and learning in mathematics. P/NP or letter grading.
125A | Developmental Psychopathology |  | description:Seminar, three hours; fieldwork, seven hours. Research approaches utilized by psychologists in Fernald Research Intern Program to conduct research in developmental psychopathology in context of direct experience. Interns provided with necessary background to undertake various research activities during Winter and Spring Quarters. P/NP grading.
125B | Research Methods in Developmental Psychopathology |  | description:Laboratory, three hours; fieldwork, seven hours. Limited to departmental majors. Research approaches utilized by psychologists to conduct research in developmental psychopathology. Letter grading.
125C | Advanced Research Methods in Developmental Psychopathology |  | description:Laboratory, three hours; fieldwork, seven hours. Limited to departmental majors. Advanced research approaches utilized by psychologists to conduct research in developmental psychopathology. Letter grading.
126 | Clinical Psychology Laboratory |  | description:Laboratory, four hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, and 127A or 127B or 127C. Designed for departmental majors. Methods, designs, and issues in conduct of clinical psychology research. Students develop and conduct research. Content varies by instructor, with concentration on one of following: schizophrenia, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, childhood disorders, psychophysiological methods, observational methods with couples and families. Letter grading.
127A | Abnormal Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 10. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 127B or 127C. Study of dynamics and prevention of abnormal behavior, including neuroses, psychoses, character disorders, psychosomatic reactions, and other abnormal personality patterns. P/NP or letter grading.
127B | Abnormal Psychology: Biological Bases |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 10. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 127A or 127C. Study of biological substrates of abnormal cognition, behavior, and mood, with particular focus on neuroscience, genetics, physiology, and anatomy of clinical disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depression, and substance disorders. P/NP or letter grading.
127C | Abnormal Psychology: Developmental Perspectives |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 10. Not open for credit to students with credit for course 127A or 127B. Study of abnormal child development from infancy through adolescence and early adulthood. Clinical disorders include behavioral disorders, learning problems, depression/anxiety, and disorders of development such as autism and mental retardation. P/NP or letter grading.
129A | Personality Measurement |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Rationale, methods, and content of studies dealing with problems of describing persons in terms of a limited set of dimensions. Detailed consideration of research literature dealing with a few representative personality dimensions. P/NP or letter grading.
129C | Culture and Mental Health |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Introduction to study of culture and human behavior in general, and culture and mental health in particular. Emphasis on cultural groups that comprise major U.S. ethnic groups (i.e., African Americans, Latinos/Chicanos, Asian Americans, and American Indians). P/NP or letter grading.
129D | Personality |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 10. Survey of major topics in field of personality, including personality theory, personality assessment, and physiological, behavioral, and cultural role of perception, learning, and motivation in personality. P/NP or letter grading.
129E | Human Sexuality |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for senior Psychology majors. Overview of psychology of human sexuality. Psychological research, assessment, and therapy described in a format which highlights their significance for understanding human sexual functioning. Psychological mechanisms underlying expression of human sexuality. P/NP or letter grading.
129F | Clinical Psychology of Childhood and Adolescence |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 127A or 127B or 127C. Survey of child and adolescent psychopathology and psychotherapy from a developmental perspective. Coverage includes such conditions as anxiety disorders, depression, conduct and attention problems, eating disorders, and autism, with information on prevalence, causes, common treatments and their effects. P/NP or letter grading.
130 | Developmental Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Designed for juniors/seniors. Elaboration of developmental aspects of physical, mental, social, and emotional growth from birth to adolescence. P/NP or letter grading.
131 | Research in Developmental Psychology |  | description:Discussion, one hour; laboratory, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, and 130 or one course from 133A through 133I. Designed for Psychology and Cognitive Science majors. Forms of scientific writing; ethics of research, especially with minors; special advantages and problems of asking developmental research questions; relevant methodologies for experimental and observational work; data analyses and data presentation options. Letter grading.
132A | Learning Problems, Schooling Problems: Policy and Practice |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for juniors/seniors. Exploration of different orientations to persons with learning problems, emphasizing assessment and intervention approaches and psychological impact of such approaches. Topics include interaction of learner and environment, sociopolitical nature of classroom, psychological impact of schooling, grades, and evaluations, process versus goal focus in learning. P/NP or letter grading.
132B | Mental Health in Schools: Policy and Practice |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to juniors/seniors. Policies, models, and mechanisms for mental health in schools. Psychopathology placed into broader perspective of normal development and psychosocial problems to explore range of theoretical, practical, and ethical issues. P/NP or letter grading.
133A | Adolescent Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Examination of cognitive, social, physical, and physiological development of the adolescent. P/NP or letter grading.
133B | Cognitive Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Major theories, approaches, and issues in study of cognitive development. Readings include original research on important topics such as development of perception, language, thinking, and problem solving, and acquisition of concepts and domain-specific language. P/NP or letter grading.
133C | Language Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Application of principles of cognitive development, learning, and perception to study of language development. Topics include first and second language acquisition (sounds, meanings, grammatical structures), learning mechanisms, communication skills, and relation between language and thought in children. P/NP or letter grading.
133D | Social and Personality Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Theory and research on social and personality development during childhood. Topics include parent/child attachment, temperament, self-control, aggression, sex-typing, self-concept, moral reasoning and behavior, social status and social skills, and peer group relations. P/NP or letter grading.
133E | Perceptual Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Topics include origins and development of human perceptual abilities, origins of knowledge about functionally important aspects of the environment, ecological and computational issues in perception, research and theory about initial perceptual capacities, and some sensory foundations. P/NP or letter grading.
133F | Psychology and Education |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Application of principles of cognitive development, learning, and perception to educational problems. Topics include general instructional issues, psychology of reading and mathematics, exceptional children, early childhood education, and education of the disadvantaged. P/NP or letter grading.
133G | Culture and Human Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Role of culture in human development through psychology, anthropology, and autobiography. Students relate material from lectures and readings, through empirical research projects, to diverse cultural backgrounds in class, at UCLA, and in the broader community. P/NP or letter grading.
133I | Applied Developmental Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Application of developmental psychology to issues pertaining to improving well-being of children and their families. Topics include quality of child care, patterns and ranges of normal child behaviors, developmental disabilities, safety, legal, and public policy issues, child-rearing practices. P/NP or letter grading.
134A | Applied Developmental Psychology: Infant/Toddler Care and Education |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for Applied Developmental Psychology minors. Coverage of children zero to three years old. Topics include physical, cognitive, social, and emotional development of children, developmentally appropriate practices, child care quality, role of educator/caregiver, and other related issues. Letter grading.
134B | Applied Developmental Psychology: Preschool/School-Age Care and Education |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for Applied Developmental Psychology minors. Coverage of children three to eight years old. Topics include physical, cognitive, social, and emotional development of children, developmentally appropriate practices, child care quality, role of educator/caregiver, and other related issues. Letter grading.
134C | Advanced Applied Developmental Psychology |  | description:Seminar, one hour; fieldwork, eight hours. Requisites: courses 134A, 134B, 134D, 134E. Designed for Applied Developmental Psychology minors. Continuing fieldwork in advanced applications of developmental psychology to support and illustrate, in applied setting, theories and research findings presented in lecture. P/NP grading.
134D | Fieldwork in Applied Developmental Psychology |  | description:Fieldwork, 86 hours per term. Enforced corequisite: course 134A. Designed for Applied Developmental Psychology minors. Fieldwork in applications of developmental psychology to support and illustrate, in applied setting, theories and research findings presented in lecture. P/NP grading.
134E | Advanced Fieldwork in Applied Developmental Psychology |  | description:Fieldwork, 86 hours per term. Enforced corequisite: course 134B. Designed for Applied Developmental Psychology minors. Fieldwork in advanced applications of developmental psychology to support and illustrate, in applied setting, theories and research findings presented in lecture. P/NP grading.
134F | Infant Care and Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: course 10, one course from 130 or 133B through 133I, one statistics course. In-depth study of research methods, current research findings, and theories used to understand infant development from conception through second year of life, including cross-cultural application of this knowledge to various populations. P/NP or letter grading.
134G | Early Childhood Curriculum |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: course 10, one course from 130 or 133B through 133I, one statistics course. Examination of methods, materials, and philosophies that enhance development of children in context of childcare settings. Topics include issues of multiculturalism, antibias curriculum, and special needs adaptations. P/NP or letter grading.
134I | Child, Family, and Community |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: course 10, one course from 130 or 133B through 133I, one statistics course. Exploration of role of early childhood educators within context of diverse racial, ethnic, economic, and cultural backgrounds and impact of these dynamics on children's development. P/NP or letter grading.
135 | Social Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Designed for juniors/seniors. Interrelationships between the individual and his social environment. Social influences on motivation, perception, and behavior. Development and change of attitudes and opinions. Psychological analysis of small groups, social stratification, and mass phenomena. P/NP or letter grading.
136A | Social Psychology Laboratory |  | description:Lecture, one hour; laboratory, four hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, 135. Designed for Psychology majors. Introduction to research designs and methods used to test social psychological hypothesis, including experiments, observation, content analysis, and/or questionnaires. P/NP or letter grading.
136B | Nonexperimental Methods in Social Psychology |  | description:Lecture, two hours; laboratory, two hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, 135. Designed for Psychology majors. Research experience with nonexperimental methods for study of social attitudes or behavior, including fieldwork with survey research, naturalistic observation, or questionnaires. P/NP or letter grading.
136C | Survey Methods in Psychology |  | description:Lecture, two hours; laboratory, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, 135. Designed for Psychology majors. Survey research in psychology, with particular emphasis on surveys of social and political attitudes. Actual experience in systematic survey research such as that done by media polling agencies, market research companies, and academic survey research centers. Topics include survey design, sampling, interviewing techniques, response rates, questionnaire design, data coding, and analysis. Training in telephone interviewing techniques in laboratories. P/NP or letter grading.
137A | Sport Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for junior/senior Psychology majors. Introduction to field of sport psychology. Coverage of research and applied aspects of a range of topics, including youth sport participants as well as world-class performers.
M137B | Nonverbal Communication and Body Language |  | description:(Same as Communication Studies M113.) Lecture, three hours. Examination of how various forms of nonverbal communication convey meaningful information to perceivers, with focus on both production and perception of multiple communication formats (e.g., affect expression of face and body, gesture, and kinematics), with strong emphasis on body language. Readings from variety of related fields. P/NP or letter grading.
137C | Intimate Relationships |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Limited to juniors/seniors. Introduction to how social scientists think about, study, and treat intimate relationships, with emphasis on understanding how relationships change over time. Topics include attraction, relationship formation, conflict resolution, social support, sex, role of individual differences, and external circumstances. P/NP or letter grading.
M137E | Work Behavior of Women and Men |  | description:(Same as Gender Studies M137E.) Lecture, two and one half hours. Requisite: course 10 or Gender Studies 10. Designed for seniors. Examination of work behavior of women and men. Topics include antecedents of career choice, job findings, leadership, performance evaluation, discrimination and evaluation bias, job satisfaction, and interdependence of work and family roles. P/NP or letter grading.
137F | Introduction to Sport Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for juniors/seniors. Survey of topics in sport psychology, including leadership and team dynamics, moral development and aggression, personality, motivation, fan behavior, and performance enhancement. Consideration of youth sport through world-class athletics. P/NP or letter grading.
137G | Social Cognitive Neuroscience |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Principles of social cognitive neuroscience (SCN) and survey of broad array of topics in field. SCN is fundamental merging of social science questions and neuroscience methods, with particular emphasis on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). P/NP or letter grading.
137I | Interpersonal Influence and Social Power |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 135. Theory and research focusing on how people influence one another and resist such influence, and on the bases of social power. Motivations and effects of influence for the powerholder and target of influence. Applications to such problems and issues as power and leadership in organizations, interpersonal influence and health, power relationships in the family, interpersonal influence in everyday life, social power of political figures.
M138 | Electoral Politics: Political Psychology |  | description:(Same as Political Science M141A.) Lecture, three or four hours; discussion, one hour (when scheduled). Requisite: course 10. Designed for juniors/seniors. Examination of political behavior, political socialization, personality and politics, racial conflict, and psychological analysis of public opinion on these issues.
M139 | Perspectives on Autism and Neurodiversity |  | description:(Same as Disability Studies M139.) Seminar, three and one half hours. Genealogy of autism as diagnostic category and cultural phenomenon from its historical roots as new, rare, and obscure condition in early 1940s to its current contested status as minority identity and/or global epidemic. Examination of material sourced from various fields and disciplines invested in autism, including psychology, neuroscience, arts and humanities, popular media, anthropology, activism, and critical autism studies. Students encounter and analyze multiple perspectives on autism and put them in conversation with one another. Attention paid to way people on spectrum define, explain, and represent their own experiences of autism and discussion of what ramifications of these multiple framings are in context of autism intervention strategy and disability policy today. Letter grading.
M140 | Introduction to Study of Aging |  | description:(Same as Social Welfare M140.) Lecture, three hours. Designed for juniors/seniors. Perspectives on major features of human aging -- biological, social, psychological, and humanistic. Introduction to information on range of influences on aging to prepare students for subsequent specialization. P/NP or letter grading.
142H | Advanced Statistical Methods in Psychology (Honors) |  | description:Lecture, three hours; laboratory, two hours. Requisites: courses 100A, 100B. Survey of statistical techniques commonly used in psychology, education, and behavioral and social sciences: correlational techniques, analysis variance, and multiple regression. P/NP or letter grading.
M144 | Measurement and Its Applications |  | description:(Same as Statistics M154.) Lecture, three hours. Requisite: one course from 100A, Statistics 10, 11, 12, 13, or 14. Selected theories for quantification of psychological, educational, social, and behavioral science data. Classical test, factor analysis, generalizability, item response, optimal scaling, ordinal measurement, computer-adaptive, and related theories. Construction of tests and measures and their reliability, validity, and bias. P/NP or letter grading.
M147A | Psychology of Lesbian Experience |  | description:(Same as Gender Studies M147A and Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Studies M147A.) Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour. Requisite: course 10 or Gender Studies 10 or Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Studies M114. Designed for juniors/seniors. Review of research and theory in gender studies and psychology to examine various aspects of lesbian experience, impact of heterosexism/stigma, gender role socialization, minority status of women and lesbians, identity development within a multicultural society, changes in psychological theories about lesbians in sociohistorical context. P/NP or letter grading.
150 | Introduction to Health Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 10. Areas of health, illness, treatment, and delivery of treatment that can be elucidated by understanding of psychological concepts and research, psychological perspective on these problems, and how psychological perspective might be enlarged and extended in medical area. P/NP or letter grading.
151 | Research Methods in Health Psychology |  | description:Laboratory, four hours. Enforced requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B, 150. Research methods used in health psychology, including experimental, quasi-experimental, and nonexperimental methods. Examples and projects from health psychology. Letter grading.
152 | Mind-Body Interactions and Health |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for junior/senior Psychology and Psychobiology majors. Examination of bidirectional interactions between mind and body and how these interactions influence physical health. Topics include impact of stress, emotions, personality, and social world on biological systems and health. Discussion of mind-body interventions designed to reduce stress and improve health, including scientific research on yoga and meditation. P/NP or letter grading.
160 | Genetics of Human Cognition and Behavior |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, and 127A or 127B or 127C. Limited to juniors/seniors. Survey of field of behavior genetics, including methods for determining genetic and environmental influences and for locating and characterizing genes impacting these traits, as well as current knowledge of genetic contributions to cognition and behavior and disorders thereof. P/NP or letter grading.
161 | Behavior and Brain Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A. Limited to juniors/seniors. Exploration of relationship between brain development and behavior. Examination of how cognitive neuroscience can inform study of development and how developmental approach can advance progress in cognitive and developmental sciences. P/NP or letter grading.
162 | Psychology of Addiction |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Survey of topics covering psychological and neurobiological theories of addiction, pharmacological effects of drugs and abuse, etiology, assessment, diagnosis, and treatment. P/NP or letter grading.
M163 | Death, Suicide, and Trauma |  | description:(Same as Sociology M138.) Lecture, three hours; discussion, one hour. Sociological analysis of incidence of violent death. Suicide is eighth leading cause of death in U.S. and third leading cause for young people aged 15 to 24. Both kinds of violent deaths are often dismissed as extreme psychopathology, reflecting individual mental health issues. Sociologists argue that suicide and homicide are social facts. Suicide and homicide do not occur randomly in society but are stratified according to social factors such as age, gender, race, sexual orientation, and class. Analysis of strength of this sociological argument and evaluation of explanatory potential of different theories to make sense of violent death, paying particular attention to forensic and medicolegal system to determine suicide and solve homicides. Review of historic and contemporary studies to examine how research and conceptualizations of suicide and homicide have changed, as well as social responses to these phenomena. P/NP or letter grading.
164 | Puberty and Sleep |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 10. Limited to juniors/seniors. Exploration of how normative biological and hormonal changes during adolescence influence adolescent behavior and well-being. Focus specifically on puberty and sleep, which both lead to consequential effects on behavior, health, and brain development. P/NP or letter grading.
M165 | Psychology of Gender |  | description:(Same as Gender Studies M165.) Lecture, three hours. Consideration of psychological literature relevant to understanding contemporary sex differences. Topics include sex- role development and role conflict, physiological and personality differences between men and women, sex differences in intellectual abilities and achievement, and impact of gender on social interaction. P/NP or letter grading.
M166 | Neurobiology of Bias and Discrimination |  | description:(Same as Neuroscience M187.) Seminar, three hours; discussion, one hour. Limited to junior/senior neuroscience and psychology students. Exploration of aspects of mammalian brain function that generate preference, bias, and discrimination. Consideration of research at multiple levels of analysis from genetics to neural circuits to behavior. Discussion of societal implications of these research findings, including their relevance to public policies and criminal justice system. Letter grading.
M172 | Afro-American Woman in U.S. |  | description:(Same as African American Studies M172 and Gender Studies M172.) Lecture, two and one half hours. Designed for juniors/seniors. Impact of social, psychological, political, and economic forces which impact on interpersonal relationships of Afro-American women as members of large society and as members of their biological and ethnic group. P/NP or letter grading.
173 | Advanced Abnormal Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, and 127A or 127B or 127C. Examination of research and theory concerning origins, course, and outcomes of disordered behavior. Focus on continuity and change in patterns of behavior, assessment methods, and research approaches. Concentration on one of following: childhood disorders, anxiety and stress, schizophrenias, or mood disorders. P/NP or letter grading.
M174 | Health Disparities |  | description:(Formerly numbered 174.) (Same as Life Sciences M174.) Lecture, three hours. Examination of health disparities and ways in which societal responses to race and ethnicity in combination with variety of other factors create differential quality and access to healthcare resulting in poor health outcomes in racial/ethnic minorities. Basic foundation for critical thinking about assumptions that shape life sciences, medical research, clinical practice, and social and behavioral sciences as they relate to racial and ethnic minority populations and to teach students to integrate concepts of culture and health disparities into other social, biological, political, psychological, genetic, and clinical health interests. P/NP or letter grading.
175 | Community Psychology |  | description:Designed for junior/senior Psychology majors. Application of psychological principles to understanding and solution of community problems. Topics include community development, community mental health problems, drugs, racism, and rehabilitation of prisoners.
M176SL | Addressing Social Determinants in Racial/Ethnic Minority Communities to Reduce and Prevent Health Disparities |  | description:(Same as Civic Engagement M175SL.) Seminar, two hours; fieldwork, 10 hours. Examination of how addressing social determinants in racial/ethnic minority communities can reduce or eliminate physical and mental health disparities. Currently in racial and ethnic minority communities, health status of individuals can be function of built environment, exposure to pollutants and toxins, scarcity of supermarkets or stores with fresh produce and nutritional food, noise levels, and variety of other stressors and unhealthy conditions. Health interventions are often focused on individual-level change or increases in access to healthcare with little in way of changing risk environments. Designed to identify and provide opportunities to understand how to address social determinants related to negative health outcomes in racial/ethnic minority neighborhoods and communities and to experience how to use social determinants literature in service of collaborative activities with community organizations. P/NP or letter grading.
177 | Counseling Relationships |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, two hours. Requisites: courses 10, 100A, and 127A or 127B or 127C. Designed for junior/senior Psychology majors. Conceptual and empirical foundations of psychological counseling; comparison of alternative models of counseling processes. Emphasis on counseling approaches in community mental health areas such as drug abuse, suicide prevention, and crisis intervention. P/NP or letter grading.
178 | Human Motivation |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for juniors/seniors. Examination of theories of human motivation, experimental findings supporting the theories, and history of study of motivation. Topics include sociobiology, conflict, aspiration level, achievement strivings, and causal attributions.
179A | Health Behavior and Health Status of Ethnic Groups: Behavioral Perspective |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Prerequisites: course 10, junior or senior standing. Survey course of psychological aspects of health behavior and health status in major ethnic groups in the U.S. Emphasis on major diseases outlined by the U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS).
179B | Biomedical and Psychosocial Aspects of AIDS/HIV |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 150 or 179A or Health Policy 100. Designed for juniors/seniors. Basics of epidemiology of AIDS, routes of transmission, clinical characteristics of AIDS, neurological and psychological aspects of coping with HIV infection and AIDS. Presentation of biologic, behavioral, and therapeutic interventions. P/NP or letter grading.
M180 | Contemporary Problems in Developmental Disabilities |  | description:(Same as Psychiatry M180.) Seminar, three hours. Corequisite: course M181A. Limited to Developmental Disabilities Program students. Examination of broad spectrum of issues related to mental retardation, intelligence and IQ, genetics, neurobiology, and other developmental disabilities. P/NP or letter grading.
M181A | Research in Contemporary Problems in Developmental Disabilities |  | description:(Same as Psychiatry M181A.) Lecture, one hour; laboratory, eight hours. Corequisite: course M180. Limited to Developmental Disabilities Program students. Research experience. In Progress grading (credit to be given only on completion of course M181B).
M181B | Research in Contemporary Problems in Developmental Disabilities |  | description:(Same as Psychiatry M181B.) Lecture, one hour; laboratory, eight hours. Requisite: course M181A. Limited to Developmental Disabilities Program students. Research experience. Letter grading.
184A | Psychology Research Opportunity Program Seminar |  | description:Seminar, 90 minutes. Designed to bring together Psychology Research Opportunity Program (PROPS) students undertaking supervised tutorial research in seminar setting with one or more faculty members to discuss their own work or related work in discipline. Led by one supervising faculty member. P/NP grading.
184B | Psychology Research Opportunity Program Seminar |  | description:Seminar, 90 minutes. Designed to bring together Psychology Research Opportunity Program (PROPS) students undertaking supervised tutorial research in seminar setting with one or more faculty members to discuss their own work or related work in discipline. Led by one supervising faculty member. P/NP grading.
185 | Research Practicum in Psychology |  | description:Laboratory, seven hours. Corequisite: course C194D. Limited to juniors/seniors. Practical applications of psychology through research under guidance of faculty mentor. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Psychology Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
186A | Cognitive Science Laboratory: Introduction to Theory and Simulation |  | description:Laboratory, four hours. Requisites: courses 10, 85, 100A, 100B, Program in Computing 10A, 10B. Designed for junior/senior departmental majors. Models of cognition within framework of explanation at multiple levels of abstraction. Examples of elementary models in multiple psychological domains (e.g., visual perception, categorization, learning, reasoning, and problem solving). Types of models include neural networks and symbolic models. Lectures and discussions interwoven with computer simulations written in Matlab. P/NP or letter grading.
186B | Cognitive Science Laboratory: Neural Networks |  | description:Laboratory, four hours. Requisites: courses 10, 85, 100A, 100B, Mathematics 31A, 31B, Program in Computing 10A, 10B. Designed for junior/senior departmental majors. Laboratory experience in neural network modeling of perception and cognition. Specific topics include essential neurophysiology, basic architectures, learning, and programming techniques. Principles illustrated and discussed in context of models of specific perceptual and cognitive processes. Simulations written in Pascal. P/NP or letter grading.
186C | Cognitive Science Laboratory: Psychophysical Theories and Methods |  | description:Lecture, two hours; laboratory, two hours. Requisites: courses 10, 85, 100A, 100B. Designed for junior/senior departmental majors. Lectures and laboratory work that examine perceptual measurement procedures (psychophysical methods) and cognitive processing and decision models on which procedures are based, with particular emphasis on signal detection theory and its applications. Letter grading.
186D | Laboratory in Functional Neuroimaging |  | description:Laboratory, four hours. Enforced requisites: courses 10, 100A, 100B. Limited to departmental majors. Introduction to study of brain with functional resonance imaging (fMRI). All major aspects to be discussed, from physical basis of MR signal to data analysis. Letter grading.
187A | Psychology and Law |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, two hours. Designed for juniors/seniors. Study of new topics on legal psychology, including suspect identification, witness reports, and police procedures. Outside speakers utilized in presentation of these materials. Students participate in presentations and/or discussions.
187B | Advanced Psychology and Law |  | description:Lecture, three   hours; discussion, one hour. Prerequisites: course 187A, junior standing. Study of additional topics on legal psychology, including gang violence, theories of crime, corrections, repeat offenders, community policing, and interrogration. Outside speakers utilized in presentation of these materials. P/NP or letter grading.
187C | Sex and Law |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Limited to juniors/seniors. Examination of Constitutional foundation for sexual rights in America, with focus on freedoms of speech and press, right to privacy, and Ninth Amendment rights reserved by the people. P/NP or letter grading.
188A | Special Seminars: Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to juniors/seniors. Departmentally sponsored experimental or temporary seminars on selected topics in psychology, such as those taught by visiting faculty members. Reading, discussion, and development of culminating project. May be repeated for credit. P/NP or letter grading.
188B | Special Courses in Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for junior/senior majors. Departmentally sponsored experimental or temporary courses on topics of psychological interest, such as those taught by visiting faculty members. Consult "Schedule of Classes" for topics and instructors. May be repeated for credit. P/NP or letter grading.
188SA | Individual Studies for USIE Facilitators |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced corequisite: Honors Collegium 101E. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor to discuss selected USIE seminar topic, conduct preparatory research, and begin preparation of syllabus. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
188SB | Individual Studies for USIE Facilitators |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced requisite: course 188SA. Enforced corequisite: Honors Collegium 101E. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor to finalize course syllabus. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
188SC | Individual Studies for USIE Facilitators |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Enforced requisite: course 188SB. Limited to junior/senior USIE facilitators. Individual study in regularly scheduled meetings with faculty mentor while facilitating USIE 88S course. Individual contract with faculty mentor required. May not be repeated. Letter grading.
189 | Advanced Honors Seminars |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to 20 students. Designed as adjunct to undergraduate lecture course. Exploration of topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities and led by lecture course instructor. May be applied toward honors credit for eligible students. Honors content noted on transcript. P/NP or letter grading.
189HC | Honors Contracts |  | description:Tutorial, three hours. Limited to students in College Honors Program. Designed as adjunct to upper division lecture course. Individual study with lecture course instructor to explore topics in greater depth through supplemental readings, papers, or other activities. May be repeated for maximum of 4 units. Individual honors contract required. Honors content noted on transcript. Letter grading.
190 | Research Colloquia in Psychology |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Designed to bring together students undertaking supervised tutorial research in seminar setting with one or more faculty members to discuss their own work or related work in discipline. Led by one supervising faculty member. May be repeated for credit. P/NP grading.
191 | Variable Topics Research Seminars: Psychology |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Limited to juniors/seniors. Research seminar on selected topics in psychology. Reading, discussion, and development of culminating project. May be repeated for credit. P/NP grading.
191AH | Departmental Honors Research Seminars |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Enforced corequisite: course 198. Course 191AH is requisite to 191BH, which is requisite to 191CH. Limited to psychology honors program students. Opportunity for development and analysis of creative ideas through individual research projects with faculty sponsor and discussion of student and faculty research presentations. Information and applications may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. Letter grading.
191BH | Departmental Honors Research Seminars |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Requisite: course 191AH. Enforced corequisite: course 198. Limited to psychology honors program students. Opportunity for development and analysis of creative ideas through individual research projects with faculty sponsor and discussion of student and faculty research presentations. Information and applications may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. Letter grading.
191CH | Departmental Honors Research Seminars |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Requisite: course 191BH. Enforced corequisite: course 198. Limited to psychology honors program students. Opportunity for development and analysis of creative ideas through individual research projects with faculty sponsor and discussion of student and faculty research presentations. Information and applications may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. If approved in advance by Undergraduate Office, courses 191CH and 198 may be applied toward elective course requirement for any Psychology Department major. Letter grading.
192 | Educational Practices in Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to juniors/seniors. Training and supervised practicum for advanced undergraduate students to assist in courses related to psychology. Students assist in preparation of materials and development of innovative programs under guidance of faculty members and teaching assistants. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Psychology Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
193 | Journal Club Seminars: Psychology |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Limited to undergraduate students. Discussion of readings selected from current literature of particular field or attendance at and write-ups of speakers series. May be repeated for credit. P/NP grading.
194A | Internship Seminars: Psychology |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Corequisite: course 195A. Study of research methods, applications, and current literature through group discussion, presentation, and papers. Research fields and topics vary by instructor. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Psychology Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
194B | Research Group Seminars: Psychology |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Corequisite: course 196A (3-unit option). Limited to juniors/seniors who are part of research group. Discussion of research methods and current literature in field or of research of faculty members or students. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Psychology Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
194C | Research Group Seminars: Cognitive Science |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Corequisite: course 196B (3-unit option). Limited to junior/senior Cognitive Science majors who are part of research group. Discussion of research methods and current literature in field or of research of faculty members or students. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May be applied toward course requirements for Cognitive Science major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
C194D | Research Group Seminars: Practicum |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Corequisite: course 185. Designed for undergraduate students who are part of research group that meets with graduate students. Discussion of research methods and current literature in field or of research of faculty members or students. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Psychology Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. Concurrently scheduled with course C296B. P/NP grading.
195A | Community Internships in Psychology |  | description:Tutorial (approved community setting), six hours. Corequisite: course 194A. Limited to juniors/seniors. Internship in applications of psychology in supervised setting in community agency or business. Students meet on regular basis with sponsor and provide periodic reports of their experience. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Psychology Department major. Individual contract with supervising placement sponsor required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
195B | Corporate Internships in Cognitive Science |  | description:Tutorial, eight hours. Limited to junior/senior Cognitive Science majors. Practical applications of cognitive science through internship experience in supervised setting. Students meet on regular basis with supervisor and provide periodic reports of their experience. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May be applied toward course requirements for Cognitive Science major. Individual contract with supervisor required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
196A | Research Apprenticeship in Psychology |  | description:Tutorial, eight hours. Corequisite: course 194B. Limited to juniors/seniors. Practical applications of psychology through research under guidance of faculty mentor. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May not be applied toward course requirements for any Psychology Department major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
196B | Research Apprenticeship in Cognitive Science |  | description:Tutorial, eight hours. Corequisite: course 194C. Limited to junior/senior Cognitive Science majors. Practical applications of cognitive science through research under guidance of faculty mentor. Only 12 units from any combination of courses 185, 192, 194, 195, and 196 may be applied toward undergraduate degree. May be applied toward course requirements for Cognitive Science major. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
198 | Honors Research in Psychology |  | description:Tutorial, two hours. Enforced corequisite: course 191AH or 191BH or 191CH. Limited to juniors/seniors and psychology honors program students. Development and completion of honors thesis or comprehensive research project under direct supervision of faculty member. May be repeated for credit. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. Letter grading.
199A | Senior Project in Psychology |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Limited to juniors/seniors. Supervised individual research under guidance of psychology faculty mentor. Culminating paper required. Only one 4-unit 199 course may be taken per term. May be repeated for credit. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. P/NP grading.
199B | Senior Project in Psychology |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Limited to juniors/seniors. Supervised individual research under guidance of psychology faculty mentor. Culminating paper required. Only one 4-unit 199 course may be taken per term. May be taken only once for letter grade. Individual contract required. Information and contracts may be obtained from Undergraduate Advising Office, 1531 Franz Hall. Letter grading.
200A | Pavlovian Processes |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Basic principles and characteristics of learning and behavior, including Pavlovian conditioning, instrumental learning, and species-specific behavior. S/U or letter grading.
200B | Instrumental Conditioning |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Topics include animal learning and conditioning and application of learning principles to goal-directed action, motivational processes, and goal selection in nonhuman animals. S/U or letter grading.
200C | Representational Processes |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Preparation: undergraduate learning and physiological psychology courses. Review of experimental data on and models of construction of spatial, temporal, and numerical representations. Explicitly symbolic models compared and contrasted with associative models. Implications for neurobiology of learning and memory. S/U or letter grading.
201 | Current Issues in Learning and Behavior |  | description:Discussion, 90 minutes. Designed for graduate students. Required of learning and behavior students a minimum of four times (entire first year and winter of second year). Presentation of papers of current interest in learning, behavior, or applied behavioral analyses by experts in the field. Evaluation of their significance and methodology in detail. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
202 | Research in Learning and Behavior |  | description:Forum in which graduate students discuss the literature and methodological, analytical, and interpretational issues related to specific topics of research in learning and behavior. S/U grading.
204A | Basic Motivational Processes |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Analysis, using behavioral systems approach, of basic motivated behavior such as feeding, drinking, foraging, and reproduction. Same approach also applied to phenomena such as acquired motivation, reinforcement, and drug addiction. Historical survey of behavioral analyses of motivation and goal-directed behavior. S/U or letter grading.
204B | Theories of Learning |  | description:Discussion, three hours. Requisite: course 200A. Critical discussion and in-depth analysis of current major theoretical approaches to associative learning, with emphasis on recent experimental analyses of conditioning phenomena.
204C | Evaluative Processes |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate psychology students. Lectures and discussion on current research in application of learning principles to clinical and social problems such as alcohol and drug abuse, aggression, fear management, mental retardation, behavioral medicine, autism/schizophrenia, etc. S/U or letter grading.
204D | Fear and Anxiety |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Preparation: graduate training. Presentation of theoretical and empirical advances, from biological and behavioral perspectives, in the area of fear and anxiety. Integration of animal and human research.
205A | Cortical Plasticity and Perceptual Learning |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Examination of neural basis of perceptual learning. Overview of literature on cortical plasticity and how it relates to different forms of perceptual learning in visual, auditory, and somatosensory modalities. Review of mechanisms of cortical plasticity, including basic features of long-term synaptic plasticity and computational models of cortical processing. Letter grading.
205B | Human Neurophysiology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Examination of higher cognitive processes in terms of neural mechanisms that underlie them. Topics include cortical modularity and organization, coordinated sensory representation, language, regional functional specialization, attention, and regulation of cortical function by extracortical systems. Letter grading.
205C | Neurotransmitters in Human Disorders of Motor and Cognitive Function |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Detailed analysis of molecules involved in interneuronal communication processes (i.e., neurotransmitters, neurohormones, "neuromodulators," neurotropic agents). Discussion of their roles in normal brain physiology, followed by detailed analyses of their perturbations in various disease states. Particular emphasis on current and past thinking about Alzheimer's disease, Parkinsonism, Huntington's disease, and Down's syndrome dementia. Letter grading.
205D | Clinical Psychopharmacology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. General principles of brain neurotransmitters, including synthesis, cell bodies and pathways, and receptor subtypes. General principles of drug administration and pharmacokinetics. Major classes of psychoactive drugs, animal models, and "atypical" compounds. Letter grading.
205E | Neurobiology of Emotion and Motivation |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Overview of literature on neural systems in emotion and motivation. Some emphasis on involvement of brain regions and neurotransmitter systems in affect and emotion regulation, motivated behavior, and psychopathology. Letter grading.
205F | Physiology of Learning |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Search for anatomical loci of engrams. Cell biology of plasticity, including electrophysiological and molecular approaches. Theories of how neural circuitry might be organized to make learning possible. Letter grading.
205G | Behavior Genetics |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. In-depth analysis of field of behavior genetics, including methods for determining genetic and environmental influences and for locating and characterizing genes impacting these traits, as well as current knowledge of genetic contributions to cognition and behavior and disorders thereof. Letter grading.
205I | Attention |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Review of cognitive neuroscience of attention from classical psychological models to modern computational models. Focus on perception, with brief coverage of attention in action and decision. Letter grading.
205K | Vision Neurobiology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Exploration of anatomy, physiology, and computation in visual system, focusing on retina, visual cortex, and overall performance. Letter grading.
205L | Cognitive Neuroscience |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Overview of neural basis of higher cognitive functions, integrating anatomical, physiological, and behavioral approaches and incorporating clinical and experimental data. Systems covered include attention, perception, memory, language, and hemispheric specialization. Letter grading.
205M | Neuropsychology of Perception |  | description:Lecture, three hours (five weeks). Designed for graduate students. Examination of neural substrates of high-level visual processing. Topics include agnosias and characteristics of electrophysiological responses recorded in primate temporal lobe. Discussion of issues regarding neural representation of knowledge. Letter grading.
206B | Introduction to Biological Signal Processing |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Introduction to basic electronics and some common types of signal processing of value in laboratory research in animal and human neuroscience, with applications in human physiology such as neuroimaging, electroencephalogram (EEG), and cardiovascular phenomena. S/U or letter grading.
207A | Seminar: Physiological Psychology |  | description:Requisite: course 115. S/U or letter grading.
207B | Seminar: Physiological Psychology |  | description:Requisite: course 115. S/U or letter grading.
207C | Seminar: Physiological Psychology |  | description:Requisite: course 115. S/U or letter grading.
M208 | Biology of Learning and Memory |  | description:(Same as Molecular, Cellular, and Integrative Physiology M200G, Neurobiology M200G, and Neuroscience M220.) Lecture, four hours. Molecular, cellular, circuit, systems, neuroanatomy, theory, and models of learning and memory. Cross-disciplinary focus on learning and memory to provide integrative view of subject that emphasizes emerging findings that take advantage of novel groundbreaking models. Letter grading.
210 | Comparative Psychobiology |  | description:Requisite: course 115. Survey of determinants of species-specific behavior, including genetic influences and learning.
212 | Evaluation of Research Literature in Physiological Psychology |  | description:Discussion, 90 minutes. Papers of current interest presented by members of seminar and their significance and methodology discussed and criticized in depth. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
M213 | Neuroimaging and Brain Mapping |  | description:(Same as Neuroscience CM272 and Physiological Science M272.) Lecture, three hours. Requisites: Neuroscience M201, M202. Theory, methods, applications, assumptions, and limitations of neuroimaging. Techniques, biological questions, and results. Brain structure, brain function, and their relationship discussed with regard to imaging. Letter grading.
215A | Health Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Preparation: undergraduate degree or training in psychology. Psychological and social factors involved in etiology of illness, treatment and course of illness, long-term care and adjustment of chronically ill or disabled, and practice of institutional healthcare and self-care. Letter grading.
215B | Human Physiology in Social and Behavioral Science |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Designed to provide students with understanding of basic anatomy and activities of biological systems that relate psychological factors to health, and interconnections between these systems. Letter grading.
216A | Psychology of Chronic Disease |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Major themes include conceptualization and operationalization of adjustment to chronic illness: theoretical framework for understanding determinants of adjustment to chronic illness and current research on those determinants, prevalence of psychological disorder in populations with chronic illness, evidence-based psychosocial interventions for individuals with chronic illness, and terminal illness and end-of-life care. Readings and discussion across several major chronic diseases (e.g., cardiovascular diseases, cancer, AIDS, rheumatic conditions, diabetes). Letter grading.
216B | Psychoneuroimmunology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Introduction to field of psychoneuroimmunology to help students develop conceptual and methodological skills necessary for interpreting research in this area. Letter grading.
216C | Psychology of Women's Health |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Examination of theoretical and empirical advances in psychology of women's health. Socioenvironmental context of women's health, stress and depression in women, psychological aspects of gynecological health, major causes of morbidity and mortality for women, and women's health-related behaviors. Letter grading.
216D | Psychology of Aging and Health |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Theories and methods in study of aging and adult development, age-related changes in biological systems, and psychosocial aspects of aging. Topics include physical and cognitive changes with age, mental and physical well-being in older adulthood, and socioemotional functioning changes with age. Letter grading.
216E | Families, Emotions, and Health |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Discussion of theory and research on biological, emotional, social, and behavioral processes that link childhood family social environments to long-term mental and physical health. Letter grading.
216F | Community Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Social problems focus, with discussion of both conceptual and methodological issues that arise when designing and evaluating community interventions. Issues related to conceptualization of social problems as opposed to problems of individuals, and presentation of multidimensional explanatory models and interventions for several social problems. Special attention to ethnic and socioeconomic health disparities and to methodological issues faced in conducting research on these issues. Letter grading.
216G | Biology of Chronic Disease |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Examination of basic epidemiology and biology of major chronic diseases (e.g., cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes) and consideration of practical and logistical issues involved in studying chronic disease populations in behavioral and population research. S/U or letter grading.
216H | Health Behavior Theory and Behavior Change |  | description:Seminar, four hours. Overview of research and theory in health behavior and health behavior change. Identification of contribution of health behaviors to overall health, construction of study methods that effectively measure major health behaviors, critical evaluation of health behavior change research, and generation of hypotheses and design research using main health behavior theories. S/U or letter grading.
217 | Variable Topics in Health Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Topics vary by instructor within health psychology area of study and may include epigenetics, child health psychology, health behavior, and behavior change. May be repeated for credit. S/U or letter grading.
218 | Research Methods in Health Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Designed for graduate psychology students. Basic foundation for health psychology graduate students to study various research designs and methods, measurement issues, responsible conduct of research, and related issues that are found in research in health psychology. S/U or letter grading.
220A | Social Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate psychology students. Intensive consideration of concepts, theories, and major problems in social psychology.
220B | Research Methods in Social Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Prerequisite: graduate standing in psychology or consent of instructor. Research design and methodological issues in experimental and nonexperimental social research.
220C | Advanced Social Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisite: course 220A or 220D. Review of contemporary topics and issues in social psychological research and theory.
220D | Introduction to Social Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Introduction to theory and research in social psychology for students who are not psychology majors. Service course for graduate students in education, sociology, political science, management, public health, etc. S/U letter grading.
221 | Seminar: Attitude Formation and Change |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 220A, 220B. Social psychological research and theories on opinions and attitudes. Effects of mass communication, social factors in assimilation of information and influence. S/U or letter grading.
222A | Interpersonal Relations |  | description:Discussion, three hours. Requisite: course 220A. Critical review of theory and research on interpersonal relations, with emphasis on friendship, dating, and marriage.
222B | Interpersonal Influence and Social Power |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Preparation: advanced social psychology course (psychological or sociological). Review of theory and research on interpersonal influence and social power, with applications to various power relationships such as supervisor/subordinate, healthcare professional/patient, doctor/nurse, parent/child, wife/husband, teacher/student, political figures, etc. S/U or letter grading.
222C | Psychology of Intergroup Relations |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. In-depth and comprehensive exposure to major theoretical and methodological issues within domain of intergroup relations research. Approaches not simply restricted to work within psychology but across social sciences in general, including anthropology, political science, and sociology. S/U or letter grading.
222D | Social Stigma |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Introduction to classic and contemporary theory and research on social psychology of stigma, primarily from perspective of stigmatized. Letter grading.
M222E | Individuals and Groups in Organizations |  | description:(Same as Management M259A.) Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Doctoral-level survey of classic and emerging theories and research in field of organizational behavior, with focus on micro-level topics related to individual and interpersonal processes within organizations. Exploration of how individual behaviors, cognitions, and perceptions are affected by organizational content, structure, and culture. S/U or letter grading.
222F | Professional Issues in Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Acquisition of skills essential for success in graduate school and academia more broadly, including transition to graduate school, writing, manuscript reviewing, grant writing, teaching and mentoring, academic job market, job negotiating, and giving job talks. Involves combination of guest speakers, lectures, discussions, readings, written exercises, and practical experience. S/U or letter grading.
222G | Social Vision |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Exploration of nascent field of social vision, with emphasis on how observers utilize visible cues in face and body to form impressions of other people and how these perceptions are moderated by existing knowledge structures and motivations. S/U or letter grading.
223 | Seminar: Social Survey Research |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisite: course 220B. Contemporary issues and topics in social survey research methodology.
225 | Seminar: Critical Problems in Social Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 220A, 220B. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. S/U or letter grading.
226A | Current Literature in Social Psychology |  | description:Discussion, 90 minutes. Limited to first-year social psychology students. Recent and current research papers in social psychology presented by members of seminar and their significance and methodology discussed and criticized in depth. S/U grading.
226B | Current Literature in Social Psychology |  | description:Discussion, 90 minutes. Open to nonsocial psychology students with consent of instructor. Recent and current research papers in social psychology presented by members of seminar and their significance and methodology discussed and criticized in depth. S/U grading.
226C | Current Literature in Social Psychology |  | description:Discussion, 90 minutes. Open to nonsocial psychology students with consent of instructor. Recent and current research papers in social psychology presented by members of seminar and their significance and methodology discussed and criticized in depth. S/U grading.
M228A | Proseminar: Political Psychology |  | description:(Same as History M236A and Political Science M261A.) Seminar, three hours. Introduction to political psychology: psychobiography, personality and politics, mass attitudes, group conflict, political communication, and elite decision making.
M228B | Seminar: Political Psychology |  | description:(Same as Political Science M261D.) Discussion, three hours. Requisite: course 220A or Political Science M261A. Examination of political behavior, political socialization, racial conflict, mass political movements, and public opinion. S/U or letter grading.
M228C | Critical Problems in Political Psychology |  | description:(Same as Political Science M261E.) Discussion, three hours. S/U or letter grading.
229 | Social Cognition |  | description:Lecture, one hour; discussion, two hours. Social cognition is concerned with how people organize and interpret social information in their environment. Seminar provides broad background in the field and also gives depth and focus on particular research topics in the field. Weekly papers, as well as a lengthy final paper, required.
231 | Psychology of Gender |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Preparation: one prior course on gender/women's studies. Critical evaluation of current research and theory concerning psychology of gender, drawing on work from various areas of psychology to understand sources of gender differentiation and its consequences for human behavior and social interaction.
232 | Human Sexuality |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Prerequisite: graduate standing. Designed to teach students how to carry out research on human sexual behavior. Contents include theory construction, scale development, physiological and endocrinological implications, radioimmunoassay (measuring hormones in blood sample), ethical issues, methodological and statistical considerations, measurement of sexual arousal, fantasy, and sexual dysfunction therapy. Discussion-oriented, with emphasis on operationalizing predictions concerning human sexual functioning.
233 | Seminar: Environmental Psychology |  | description:Requisites: courses 235, 250A, 250B. Critical review of work in environmental psychology designed to identify basic dimensions for analysis of man/environment relationships. Use of human emotional responses to environments as intervening variables linking specific stimulus qualities to a variety of approach-avoidance behaviors. Individual differences and drug-induced states as these relate to emotional response dimensions used to explain within-individual differences in response to same environment over time or between-individual differences to same situation. Review of literature relating information rate from environments to arousal and preferences for those environments.
234 | Social Psychological Aspects of Competitive Youth Sport |  | description:Review of research concerning social psychological aspects of competitive sport for children. Sport is presented as a major achievement domain for young participants. Topics include sources and consequences of competitive stress, significant adult influences and interactions, predictors of performance, determinants of participation and dropping out, and socialization through sport.
235 | Personality |  | description:Survey of cognitive, analytic, and learning theory approaches to study of personality. Emphasis on intensive exploration of selected concepts and related research.
M236 | Interdisciplinary Relationship Science |  | description:(Same as Anthropology M295S, Education M297, and Sociology M270.) Lecture, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Diverse approaches to relationship science in fields of anthropology, education, psychology, and sociology. Focus on theme of understanding biological, behavioral, and cultural aspects of relationships through diverse theoretical and methodological approaches. Use of broad definition of interpersonal relationships, including relationships such as parent-child, teacher-student, sibling, peer, kin, romantic relationships, marriages, and friendships. S/U or letter grading.
M237A | Relationship Science Forum |  | description:(Same as Anthropology M295A, Education M298A, and Sociology M269A.) Seminar, 90 minutes. Limited to graduate students. Current research and theory about personal relationships presented by members of seminar, faculty members, and guest speakers from diverse fields, including anthropology, education, psychology, and sociology. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
M237B | Relationship Science Forum |  | description:(Same as Anthropology M295B, Education M298B, and Sociology M269B.) Seminar, 90 minutes. Limited to graduate students. Current research and theory about personal relationships presented by members of seminar, faculty members, and guest speakers from diverse fields, including anthropology, education, psychology, and sociology. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
M237C | Relationship Science Forum |  | description:(Same as Anthropology M295C, Education M298C, and Sociology M269C.) Seminar, 90 minutes. Limited to graduate students. Current research and theory about personal relationships presented by members of seminar, faculty members, and guest speakers from diverse fields, including anthropology, education, psychology, and sociology. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
M238 | Survey Research Techniques in Psychocultural Studies |  | description:(Same as Psychiatry M238.) Seminar, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Techniques for conceptualizing, conducting, and analyzing survey data; instruction in qualitative strategies for enhancing survey research on psychocultural problems.
M239 | Personality, Motivation, and Attribution |  | description:(Same as Education M215.) Discussion, three hours. Current research and theory relating personality variables (e.g., attributional styles, self-esteem) to motivational concerns such as persistence and intensity of behavior. Perceived causes of outcomes in achievement and affiliative domains. S/U or letter grading.
240A | Language and Cognitive Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Preparation: one undergraduate developmental psychology course in cognitive or language development. Designed for graduate students. Consideration of major topics and concepts, key theories, latest methods, and research findings in development of language and cognition. S/U or letter grading.
240B | Social and Emotional Development |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Preparation: one undergraduate developmental psychology course in social development or related topic. Designed for graduate students. Consideration of major topics and concepts, key theories, latest methods, and research findings in social and emotional development. S/U or letter grading.
240C | Developmental Psychobiology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Introduction to emerging field of developmental psychobiology, including cognitive and affective neuroscience. Consideration of major topics and concepts, key theories, latest methods, and research findings. S/U or letter grading.
241 | Current Developments in Developmental Psychology |  | description:Discussion, 90 minutes. Designed for graduate developmental psychology students. Presentation of papers on current advances in developmental psychology and closely related areas by experts in the field. Emphasis on approaches to a problem, making it suitable to interweave presentations by graduate students. S/U grading.
242A | Seminar: Developmental Psychology -- Perceptual Development |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 240A, 240B. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit. S/U or letter grading.
242B | Seminar: Developmental Psychology -- Cognitive Development |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 240A, 240B. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit. S/U or letter grading.
242C | Seminar: Developmental Psychology -- Socialization |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 240A, 240B. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit. S/U or letter grading.
242F | Seminar: Developmental Psychology -- Development of Language and Communication |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 240A, 240B. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit. S/U or letter grading.
M242G | Seminar: Developmental Psychology -- Adolescent Development |  | description:Seminar, four hours. Designed for graduate students. Review of recent research on physical, cognitive, social, and psychological development during second decade of life. Topics include pubertal development, changes in parent/adolescent relationships, role of peers, identity development, high-risk behaviors, stress and coping, and school adjustment. Letter grading.
243A | Seminar: Practical and Societal Issues in Developmental Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 240A, 240B. Socialization processes in human development and implication for social/political, educational, research issues, values, and societal change. In Progress grading (credit to be given only on completion of course 243B).
243B | Seminar: Practical and Societal Issues in Developmental Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 240A, 240B. Socialization processes in human development and implication for social/political, educational, research issues, values, and societal change. S/U or letter grading.
244 | Critical Problems in Developmental Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 240A, 240B. Current problems; content varies depending on interest of class and instructor. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor.
M245 | Personality Development and Education |  | description:(Same as Education M217C.) Lecture, four hours. Review of research and theory of critical content areas in personality development that bear on school performance: achievement motivation, self-concept, aggression, sex differences, empathy, and other social behaviors; review of status of emotional behavior in personality theory and development. S/U or letter grading.
M246 | Psychological Aspects of Mental Retardation |  | description:(Same as Psychiatry M246.) Lecture, 90 minutes. Discussion of psychological aspects of mental retardation, including classification, description, etiology, theory, prevention, treatment, assessment, modern and future developments, and input from other disciplines (ethics, law, religion, welfare systems). S/U or letter grading.
M247 | Culture, Brain, and Development |  | description:(Same as Anthropology M293S, Education M286, and Neuroscience M294.) Seminar, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Integration of knowledge across different disciplines to understand interrelations of culture, brain, and development, where development includes both human ontogeny and human phylogeny. S/U or letter grading.
M248 | Culture, Brain, and Development Forum |  | description:(Same as Anthropology M293, Education M285, and Neuroscience M293.) Seminar, 90 minutes every other week. Interdisciplinary seminar series to provide students with exposure to current research in understanding complex relationship between culture, brain, and development. S/U grading.
249 | Evaluation Research |  | description:Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Introduction to evaluation research in psychology, with emphasis on clinical, community, and social psychology applications. Survey includes policy and strategy issues, design of evaluative studies, data analysis, and utilization of findings.
250A | Advanced Psychological Statistics |  | description:Review of fundamental concepts. Basic statistical techniques as applied to design and interpretation of experimental and observational research.
250B | Advanced Psychological Statistics |  | description:Advanced experimental design and planning of investigations.
250C | Advanced Psychological Statistics |  | description:Lecture, three hours; discussion, two hours. Requisite: course 250A. Limited to graduate students. Review of traditional topics in correlation and regression analyses, including model comparison strategies, evaluation of model assumptions, testing mediation and moderation hypotheses, working with categorical variables, general linear model, and logistic regression. Letter grading.
251A | Research Methods |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Designed for graduate psychology students. Students design and conduct original research projects under supervision of instructor in charge. It is anticipated that many students will complete their project in two terms (normally three terms allowed). S/U grading.
251B | Research Methods |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Designed for graduate psychology students. Students design and conduct original research projects under supervision of instructor in charge. It is anticipated that many students will complete their project in two terms (normally three terms allowed). S/U grading.
251C | Research Methods |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Designed for graduate psychology students. Students design and conduct original research projects under supervision of instructor in charge. It is anticipated that many students will complete their project in two terms (normally three terms allowed). S/U or letter grading.
252A | Multivariate Analysis |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Introduction to analysis of data having multiple dependent variables. Topics include continuous multivariate distributions, multiple regression, multivariate analysis of variance, discriminant analysis, canonical correlation, principal component analysis. Applications from clinical, cognitive, physiological, and social psychology. Computer methods.
252B | Discrete Multivariate Analysis |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Introduction to analysis of frequency table data. Topics include categorical univariate and multivariate distributions, independence and conditional independence, log-linear models, multivariate categorical designs, and ordered categorical variables. Applications from various areas of psychology.
M253 | Factor Analysis |  | description:(Formerly numbered 253.) (Same as Education M231B.) Lecture, four hours. Requisites: Education 211B, 231A. Exploratory factor analysis, rotations, confirmatory factor analysis, multiple-group analysis. S/U or letter grading.
254A | Computing Methods for Psychology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Use of MATLAB, but only basic programming knowledge assumed; no prior knowledge of MATLAB required. Designed to teach basic computer methods relevant to work in experimental psychology and cognitive science. Topics include simulation/modeling, statistical data analysis, and stimulus presentation. S/U or letter grading.
255A | Quantitative Aspects of Assessment |  | description:Lecture, four hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Introduction to issues concerning empirical measurement of abstract constructs using both classical and modern empirical techniques. Hands-on approach allows students to develop practical experience. In addition to discussion of issues concerning reliability and validity, topics include exposure to analytic approaches, including item response theory, multiple regression, principal components analysis, exploratory factor analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, path analysis, and structural equation modeling. S/U or letter grading.
255B | Item Response Theory |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Introduction to item response theory (IRT) measurement models and their application to educational and psychological data. Coverage of major IRT models, including models for dichotomous and polytomous formats. S/U or letter grading.
256A | Introduction to Multilevel Modeling |  | description:Lecture, four hours. Requisite: course 250C. Basics of random coefficient models for analysis of data from (1) individuals nested within groups and (2) repeated observations of individuals (longitudinal growth models). Selected advanced topics, including three-level models, cross-classification, dyadic data, categorical outcomes, power, and assumption violation. S/U or letter grading.
256B | Advanced Multilevel Modeling |  | description:Lecture, four hours. Requisite: course 256A. Advanced topics in analysis of clustered and longitudinal data, including nonlinear models, multilevel mediation, nonhierarchical data structures, meta-analysis, modeling variance, and other topics of student interest. Readings in both quantitative and substantive multilevel modeling literature. S/U or letter grading.
M257 | Multivariate Analysis with Latent Variables |  | description:(Same as Political Science M208D and Statistics M242.) Lecture, three hours. Introduction to models and methods for analysis of data hypothesized to be generated by unmeasured latent variables, including latent variable analogues of traditional methods in multivariate analysis. Causal modeling: theory testing via analysis of moment structures. Measurement models such as confirmatory, higher-order, and structured-means factory analytic models. Structural equation models, including path and simultaneous equation models. Parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, and other statistical issues. Computer implementation. Applications. S/U or letter grading.
258 | Special Problems in Psychological Statistics |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Special problems in psychological statistics and data analysis.
259 | Quantitative Methods in Cognitive Psychology |  | description:Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Number of nonstatistical mathematical methods and techniques commonly used in cognitive psychology. Topics include Markov chains, other stochastic processes, queueing theory, information theory, frequency analysis, etc.
260A | Proseminar: Cognitive Psychology |  | description:Presentation of research topics by students, faculty, and visiting scholars. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
260B | Proseminar: Cognitive Psychology |  | description:Presentation of research topics by students, faculty, and visiting scholars. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
260C | Proseminar: Cognitive Psychology |  | description:Presentation of research topics by students, faculty, and visiting scholars. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
261 | Perception |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Concepts, theories, and research in study of perception. Considers the questions: Why do things look, sound, smell, taste, or feel as they do? What is the nature of perceptual systems? How do these systems process information?
262 | Human Learning and Memory |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Contemporary theory and research in human verbal learning and memory; verbal and nonverbal learning and memory processes, structure and organization of short- and long-term memory. S/U or letter grading.
263 | Psycholinguistics |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Contemporary theory and research in psycholinguistics: coding and decoding, psycholinguistic parameters of language learning, speech recognition and perception. S/U or letter grading.
264 | Thinking |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Contemporary theory and research in thinking, problem solving, inference, semantic memory, internal representation of knowledge, imagery, concepts. S/U or letter grading.
265 | Computational Methods for Neuroimaging |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Theory and practice of processing and analysis of functional MRI data. Topics include image registration, preprocessing and quality control, statistical modeling and inference, multivariate analysis, and machine learning methods. Letter grading.
266 | Cognitive Science |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Major issues in cognitive science. Representation of cognitive structures and higher-level processes. Specific areas include perception, learning and memory, problem solving, and reasoning. Relationships to artificial intelligence.
267 | Neuroethics |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Exploration of ethical implications of modern neuroscientific advances, including potential use in legal system for assessing eyewitness memory, truthfulness, culpability, and probability of future criminal behavior. Consideration of societal consequences of cognitively enhancing drugs, memory dampening techniques, and brain stimulation. S/U or letter grading.
268A | Seminar: Human Information Processing -- Perception |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Topics vary with interests of instructor. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit.
268B | Seminar: Human Information Processing -- Human Learning and Memory |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Topics vary with interests of instructor. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit.
268C | Seminar: Human Information Processing -- Judgment and Decision Processes |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Topics vary with interests of instructor. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit.
268D | Seminar: Human Information Processing -- Language and Cognition |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Topics vary with interests of instructor. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit.
268E | Seminar: Human Information Processing -- Human Performance |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Topics vary with interests of instructor. May be taken independently and may be repeated for credit.
268F | Human-Computer Interaction |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Concepts, theories, and pragmatics of human-computer interaction. Topics include optimizing Web and product interfaces to enhance quality of user experience, with focus on applying principles of cognition, perception, learning, and memory to create human-computer interactions that are consonant with user needs and capabilities. Course projects include creating and user testing actual Web-based application. S/U or letter grading.
269 | Seminar: Cognitive Psychology |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Discussion of problems in cognitive psychology that encompass more than a single subfield of the area. May be repeated for credit.
270A | Foundations of Clinical Psychology |  | description:Lecture, five hours. Corequisite: course 271A. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Analysis of phenomenological, theoretical, and research issues regarding etiology and mediating mechanisms in neurotic, affective, schizophrenic spectrum, and other personality disturbances. Letter grading.
270B | Foundations of Clinical Psychology |  | description:Lecture, five hours. Corequisite: course 271B. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Principles and methods of psychological assessment and evaluation. Letter grading.
270C | Foundations of Clinical Psychology |  | description:Lecture, five hours. Corequisite: course 271C. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Principles and methods of psychological intervention in individuals, families, and community settings. Letter grading.
271A | Clinical Psychological Methods |  | description:Corequisites: courses 270A, 270B, 270C. Procedures in clinical psychology as applied in clinical and community settings. Supervised exposure to psychological attributes of psychopathology and procedures for psychological assessment, intervention, and research with clinical populations. Experience closely coordinated with content in courses 270A, 270B, 270C. S/U grading.
271B | Clinical Psychological Methods |  | description:Corequisites: courses 270A, 270B, 270C. Procedures in clinical psychology as applied in clinical and community settings. Supervised exposure to psychological attributes of psychopathology and procedures for psychological assessment, intervention, and research with clinical populations. Experience closely coordinated with content in courses 270A, 270B, 270C. S/U grading.
271C | Clinical Psychological Methods |  | description:Corequisites: courses 270A, 270B, 270C. Procedures in clinical psychology as applied in clinical and community settings. Supervised exposure to psychological attributes of psychopathology and procedures for psychological assessment, intervention, and research with clinical populations. Experience closely coordinated with content in courses 270A, 270B, 270C. S/U grading.
271D | Clinical Research Laboratory |  | description:Discussion, one hour; laboratory, one hour. Corequisites: courses 270A or 270B or 270C, and 271A or 271B or 271C. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Acquaints students with faculty research interests and involves them in their course 251 research at an early stage to insure completion. S/U grading.
271E | Clinical Research Laboratory |  | description:Prerequisites: course 271D, graduate standing in clinical psychology. Required of first-year clinical psychology students. Brief overview of research design issued in clinical psychology and practical issues in students' own research activities. S/U grading.
271F | Clinical Research Laboratory |  | description:Prerequisites: course 271D, graduate standing in clinical psychology. Required of first-year clinical psychology students. Discussions of students' particular research activities and issues, plus laboratories in computer analysis of statistical data. S/U grading.
271G | Evidence-Based Intervention for Childhood Problems |  | description:Fieldwork, five-day, 35-hour training period in Fall Quarter. Requisites: courses 271A, 271B, 271C. Designed for second-year graduate clinical psychology students. Training of students in application of (1) child treatment outcome literature, (2) clinical monitoring and feedback tools, and (3) common clinical strategies from evidence-based practices to prepare for assessment, monitoring, planning, and service delivery in child practicum. S/U grading.
272A | Advanced Clinical Psychological Methods: Behavior Modification with Children |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 271A, 271B, 271C. Course in series of clinical intervention and assessment offerings for second- and third-year clinical students that covers behavior modification research and practice in clinic, school, institution, and home settings. May be taken independently for credit. Letter grading.
272C | Advanced Clinical Psychological Methods: Clinical Interventions for Psychological Problems of Children |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisite or corequisite: course 401 or 451. May be taken independently for credit. Letter grading.
272D | Advanced Clinical Psychological Methods: Family Therapy and Research |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisites: courses 270A, 270B, 270C. Survey of major schools of family therapy and how each applies to specific clinical cases, with emphasis on depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. Discussion of areas of research that relate to family theories, modes of assessment, and specific interventions. May be taken independently for credit. Letter grading.
272E | Advanced Clinical Psychological Methods: Special Problems |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisite or corequisite: course 401 or 451. May be taken independently for credit. Letter grading.
272F | Advanced Clinical Psychological Methods: Behavior Modification with Adults |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Requisite or corequisite: course 401 or 451. Designed for second-year graduate clinical psychology students. Current cognitive behavior modification principles and techniques. Major conceptual issues; specific techniques demonstrated and practiced by students to cover a range of adult problems such as depression, stress and anxiety, anger management, assertion problems. May be taken independently for credit. Letter grading.
272G | Advanced Clinical Psychological Methods: Marital Therapies |  | description:Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour; laboratory, one hour. Requisites: courses 270A, 270B, 270C, 271A, 271B, 271C. Examination of assessment and treatment approaches for relationship problems in couples. Presentation, discussion, and illustration of procedures derived from social-learning, psychodynamic, and systems theories, with relevant research findings. May be taken independently for credit. Letter grading.
273A | Professional and Ethical Issues in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Lecture, one hour; discussion, one hour. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Year-long course sequence covering variety of topics necessary for clinical psychologists in their clinical work, including legal and ethical issues, child abuse, suicide assessment, issues in empirically validated treatments, psychiatric consultation and psychoactive medications, working with diverse client populations, etc. Letter grading.
273B | Professional and Ethical Issues in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Lecture, one hour; discussion, one hour. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Year-long course sequence covering variety of topics necessary for clinical psychologists in their clinical work, including legal and ethical issues, child abuse, suicide assessment, issues in empirically validated treatments, psychiatric consultation and psychoactive medications, working with diverse client populations, etc. Letter grading.
273C | Professional and Ethical Issues in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Lecture, one hour; discussion, one hour. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Year-long course sequence covering variety of topics necessary for clinical psychologists in their clinical work, including legal and ethical issues, child abuse, suicide assessment, issues in empirically validated treatments, psychiatric consultation and psychoactive medications, working with diverse client populations, etc. Letter grading.
M274 | Health Status and Health Behaviors of Racial and Ethnic Minority Populations |  | description:(Same as Health Policy and Management M274.) Lecture, two hours; discussion, one hour. Limited to graduate students. Overview of physical and mental health behaviors and status of major racial/ethnic groups in U.S. Where appropriate, discussion of international issues as well. S/U or letter grading.
275 | Conceptual and Methodological Issues in Community Intervention |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Conceptualization of social problems from macrosocial perspective; discussion of multidimensional explanatory models for select illustrative problems; discussion and critical evaluation of both individual-focused and community-focused interventions with high-risk and impacted populations. S/U or letter grading.
276 | Children with Learning and Related Behavioral Problems: School Policy and Practice |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for Ph.D. students. Exploration of learning and related behavioral problems in broad perspective as basis for analyzing cause and intervention. Issues related to prevailing policies and practices and new directions for research, policy, practice, and training. S/U or letter grading.
277A | Advanced Clinical Assessment |  | description:(Formerly numbered 277.) Lecture, four hours; laboratory, three hours. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Projective techniques, clinical interpretation, case studies, psychological test battery, psychopathology, and application of assessment to problems in psychotherapy. Letter grading.
277B | Advanced Clinical Assessment |  | description:Lecture, four hours; laboratory, three hours. Designed for graduate clinical psychology students. Projective techniques, clinical interpretation, case studies, psychological test battery, psychopathology, and application of assessment to problems in psychotherapy. Letter grading.
M278 | Functional Neuroimaging: Techniques and Applications |  | description:(Same as Bioengineering M284, Neuroscience M285, Physics and Biology in Medicine M285, and Psychiatry M285.) Lecture, three hours. In-depth examination of activation imaging, including MRI and electrophysiological methods, data acquisition and analysis, experimental design, and results obtained thus far in human systems. Strong focus on understanding technologies, how to design activation imaging paradigms, and how to interpret results. Laboratory visits and design and implementation of functional MRI experiment. S/U or letter grading.
279 | Seminar: Research in Psychopathology |  | description:Seminar, four hours. S/U or letter grading.
M280 | Affective Disorders |  | description:(Same as Psychiatry M234.) Seminar, two hours. General topics related to primary affective disorders (depression, manic depressive illness), including diagnosis, pharmacology, epidemiology, psychology, phenomenology, biology, and treatment. Students enrolled for 4 units are assigned a more intensive reading list and required to make a presentation or prepare a research paper. S/U or letter grading.
283 | Psychopathology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Survey of dominant psychological attributes of particular forms of psychopathology, including analysis of status of various theories concerned with etiology and mediating mechanisms of personality, neurotic, schizophrenic spectrum, and affective disturbances. S/U or letter grading.
284 | Seminar: Clinical Psychology and Communication |  | description:Seminar, four hours. S/U or letter grading.
M285 | Cognitive Behavior Therapy with Children: Treatment and Systems of Care |  | description:(Same as Psychiatry M277.) Seminar, 90 minutes. Designed for graduate students. Cognitive/behavioral approaches to prevention and treatment of mental health problems in children. Examination of service delivery systems for treating troubled youth and discussion of issues with respect to current systems of care. Major problems include conduct disorders, attention deficit disorder, depression, anxiety, and learning disabilities. Letter grading.
286 | Issues and Concepts of Clinical Psychology |  | description:Discussion, three hours. Open to graduate students in majors other than clinical psychology. Survey of major issues and alternatives in current practice. Emphasis on assessment and intervention, with consideration of historical, theoretical, and research bases for current trends. S/U or letter grading.
287 | Critical Problems in Clinical Research Methodology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Requisites: courses 250A, 250B. Special problems of measurement and design in clinical research. S/U or letter grading.
M288A | Principles of Neuroimaging I |  | description:(Same as Neuroscience M284A and Psychiatry M284A.) Lecture, four and one half hours. Preparation: competence in integral calculus, electricity and magnetism, computer programming (any language), general statistics. Requisite: Psychiatry 292. Course M288A is requisite to M288B. Instrumental imaging methods for study of nervous system, with emphasis on quantitative understanding and data interpretation and features common to modalities. X-ray computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, magnetoencephalography, transcranial magneto stimulation, near infrared imaging. Letter grading.
M288B | Principles of Neuroimaging II |  | description:(Same as Neuroscience M284B and Psychiatry M284B.) Lecture, four and one half hours. Preparation: competence in integral calculus, electricity and magnetism, computer programming (any language), general statistics. Requisite: course M288A. Instrumental imaging methods for study of nervous system, with emphasis on quantitative understanding and data interpretation and features common to modalities. X-ray computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, magnetoencephalography, transcranial magneto stimulation, near infrared imaging. Letter grading.
289A | Current Issues in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Designed for first-year graduate clinical psychology students. Presentation of research and applied topics relevant to clinical psychology. In Progress grading (credit to be given only on completion of courses 289B and 289C).
289B | Current Issues in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Designed for first-year graduate clinical psychology students. Presentation of research and applied topics relevant to clinical psychology. In Progress grading (credit to be given only on completion of course 289C).
289C | Current Issues in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Designed for first-year graduate clinical psychology students. Presentation of research and applied topics relevant to clinical psychology. S/U grading.
290 | History and Systems of Psychology |  | description:Seminar, two hours. Requisites: courses 251A, 251B, 251C. Rich and detailed examination of history of full scope of psychology as scientific discipline, with particular emphasis on cognitive, social/personality, developmental, and biological aspects of discipline. Broad treatment of how various emphases within broader field have evolved. S/U or letter grading.
291 | Principles of Behavioral Pharmacology |  | description:Lecture, four hours. Intensive analysis of drug, brain, and behavior relationships. Discussion of nature and source of drugs, general aspects of pharmacology, neurotransmitters and basic neuropharmacology, principles of behavioral pharmacology, categories of psychopharmacological agents, and pharmacological approaches to study of drug addiction, schizophrenia, and other behavioral processes, both normal and pathological. S/U or letter grading.
292 | Biobehavioral Mechanisms of Stress and Disease |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Designed for graduate psychology students. Behavior/physiology interactions of some major bodily systems: nervous, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and endocrine systems. Usual and altered states of these systems (e.g., stress) as these can promote permanent tissue injuries, disease, or improved bodily function, health enhancement. S/U or letter grading.
292B | Psychosocial Contributors to Ethnic Disparities in Health |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Limited to graduate students. Role of social class, gender, and other psychosocial factors in accounting for disparities in physical and psychological health in racial/ethnic groups. Attention to variety of specific disorders, with focus on explanatory models and approaches to intervention. S/U or letter grading.
293 | Behavioral and Psychophysiological Problems of Alcoholism |  | description:Lecture, four hours. Behavioral and psychophysiological characteristics of alcoholism, along with theories concerning their etiology and treatment. Experimental approaches. S/U or letter grading.
M294 | Seminar: Neural and Behavioral Endocrinology |  | description:(Same as Neurobiology M255 and Physiological Science M255.) Lecture, one hour; discussion, one hour. Topics include hormonal biochemistry and pharmacology. Hypothalamic/hypophyseal interactions, both hormonal and neural. Structure and function of hypothalamus. Hormonal control of reproductive and other behaviors. Sexual differentiation of brain and behavior. Stress: hormonal, behavioral, and neural aspects. Aging of reproductive behaviors and function. Letter grading.
295 | Psychology of Diversity |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Introduction to research and theory on group differences and psychology of diversity. Topics include social identity, intergroup relations, development across lifespan and across social and cultural contexts, and group disparities in health and mental health. Letter grading.
296A | Research Topics in Psychology |  | description:Research group meeting, one hour. Limited to graduate students. Discussion of current literature, new ideas, methodological issues, and preliminary findings. Research presentations and opportunities for feedback on current and proposed research activity to encourage, support, and facilitate student research expertise. Assigned readings included. S/U grading.
C296B | Research Group Seminars: Practicum |  | description:Seminar, one hour. Designed for graduate students who are part of research group that meets with undergraduate students. Discussion of research methods and current literature in field or of research of faculty members or students. Concurrently scheduled with course C194D. S/U grading.
297 | Issues in Social Development of Minority Child |  | description:Seminar, three hours. Designed for graduate students. Critical evaluation and integration of existing research on social psychological development of minority child. Emphasis on socialization of cognitive and personality style, with goal of empirically clarifying issues raised in this area of developmental study. S/U or letter grading.
298 | Special Problems in Psychology |  | description:Discussion, three hours. Content depends on interests of particular instructor. May be repeated for credit. S/U or letter grading.
299 | Developmental Methodology |  | description:Lecture, three hours. Coverage of both theory and methods in measuring age-related changes in behavior. Experimental designs and data-analytic solutions to problems in measurement of change. Some experience in analysis of actual data sets. S/U or letter grading.
375 | Teaching Apprentice Practicum |  | description:Seminar, to be arranged. Preparation: apprentice personnel employment as teaching assistant, associate, or fellow. Teaching apprenticeship under active guidance and supervision of regular faculty member responsible for curriculum and instruction at UCLA. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
401 | Fieldwork in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Fieldwork, to be arranged. Requisites: courses 271A, 271B, 271C. Students on practicum assignments are required to register for this course each term (except by consent of clinical program committee). Letter grading.
402 | Clinical Research Practicum |  | description:Fieldwork, two hours. Faculty and graduate students who share interests discuss current literature, new ideas, methodological issues, and preliminary findings. Meetings include research presentations and opportunities for feedback on current and proposed research activity to encourage, support, and facilitate student research expertise. Assigned reading included. S/U grading.
403 | Special Topics Study Course |  | description:Discussion, one to four hours. Under faculty supervision, group of students meets each week for quarter in self-led study group to pursue specific topic of their choice that is not covered in other department courses. S/U grading.
410A | Clinical Teaching and Supervision |  | description:Clinic, four hours. Preparation: completion of Ph.D. comprehensive examinations, advancement to candidacy or preparation for dissertation research actively under way. Study and practice of knowledge, concepts, and theories on teaching and supervision of applied clinical psychology. Letter grading.
410B | Clinical Teaching and Supervision |  | description:Clinic, four hours. Preparation: completion of Ph.D. comprehensive examinations, advancement to candidacy or preparation for dissertation research actively under way. Study and practice of knowledge, concepts, and theories on teaching and supervision of applied clinical psychology. Letter grading.
410C | Clinical Teaching and Supervision |  | description:Clinic, four hours. Preparation: completion of Ph.D. comprehensive examinations, advancement to candidacy or preparation for dissertation research actively under way. Study and practice of knowledge, concepts, and theories on teaching and supervision of applied clinical psychology. Letter grading.
410D | Clinical Assessment Supervision |  | description:Clinic, two hours; other, one hour. Designed for third-year graduate clinical psychology students. Study and practice of knowledge, concepts, and theories on teaching and supervision of psychological assessment. Letter grading.
410E | Clinical Assessment Supervision |  | description:Clinic, two hours; other, one hour. Designed for third-year graduate clinical psychology students. Study and practice of knowledge, concepts, and theories on teaching and supervision of psychological assessment. Letter grading.
410F | Clinical Assessment Supervision |  | description:Clinic, two hours; other, one hour. Designed for third-year graduate clinical psychology students. Study and practice of knowledge, concepts, and theories on teaching and supervision of psychological assessment. Letter grading.
420A | Health Psychology Practicum |  | description:Fieldwork, to be arranged. Designed for graduate students. Determination of what areas of health, illness, treatment, and delivery of treatment can be elucidated by understanding of psychological concepts and research; psychological perspective on these problems; how psychological perspective might be enlarged and extended in medical area. Through practical field placement, students apply knowledge acquired in class to research observation and/or clinical work in field. S/U or letter grading.
420B | Health Psychology Practicum |  | description:Fieldwork, to be arranged. Designed for graduate students. Determination of what areas of health, illness, treatment, and delivery of treatment can be elucidated by understanding of psychological concepts and research; psychological perspective on these problems; how psychological perspective might be enlarged and extended in medical area. Through practical field placement, students apply knowledge acquired in class to research observation and/or clinical work in field. S/U or letter grading.
421 | Research in Social Psychology |  | description:Discussion, two hours; reading and group work, four to six hours. Forum for faculty and graduate students pursuing research on a common topic to share research ideas, make research presentations, and obtain feedback on study designs, procedures, and results to foster collaborative investigations in common research areas. S/U grading.
423 | Social Survey Research Practicum |  | description:Practicum, two hours; additional hours to be arranged. Methods of survey sampling, conduct and management of computer-assisted telephone interview surveys. S/U or letter grading.
425 | Health Psychology Lecture Series |  | description:Lecture, one hour. Clinicians and researchers in health psychology from Los Angeles area present their research, programs, and/or clinical work as part of training program in health psychology. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
451 | Internship in Clinical Psychology |  | description:Fieldwork, to be arranged. Preparation: successful completion of departmental qualifying examinations. Enforced requisite: course 401. Limited to advanced UCLA clinical psychology graduate students. May be repeated for credit. S/U grading.
454 | Internship in Industrial Psychology |  | description:Fieldwork, to be arranged. S/U or letter grading.
495 | Presentation of Psychological Materials |  | description:Seminar, to be arranged. Supervised practicum in undergraduate teaching. Students serve as discussion section leaders in selected undergraduate courses. S/U grading.
501 | Cooperative Program |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation: consent of UCLA graduate adviser and graduate dean, and host campus instructor, department chair, and graduate dean. Used to record enrollment of UCLA students in courses taken under cooperative arrangements with USC. S/U grading.
596 | Directed Individual Research and Study in Psychology |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. One 596 course is required during second year of graduate study, and one 596 or 599 course is required during each succeeding year of graduate study. (Terminal M.A. candidates are exempt from this requirement.) S/U grading.
597 | Individual Studies |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Designed primarily as preparation for qualifying examinations. May be required by some area committees as requisite for taking examinations. S/U grading.
599 | Research for Ph.D. Dissertation |  | description:Tutorial, to be arranged. Preparation: successful completion of qualifying examinations. One 599 course is required during each year following completion of qualifying examinations. S/U grading.
