ACCT210 | Financial Accounting | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT210 | instructors:Beyer, A. (PI); Lester, R. (PI); Aranzamendez, O. (GP); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:Financial accounting is the measurement of economic activity for decision-making. Financial statements are a key product of this measurement process and an important component of firms' financial reporting activities. The objective of this course is not to train you to become an accountant but rather to help you develop into an informed user of financial statement information. While financial statement users face a wide variety of decisions, they are often interested in understanding the implications of financial statement information for the future cash flows and earnings potential of a firm. We will focus on understanding the mapping between underlying economic events and financial statements, and on understanding how this mapping affects inferences about future profitability and liquidity. The following learning objectives will be emphasized: (1) familiarity with the transactions businesses engage in, (2) fluency in accounting terminology, (3) understanding the structure that maps transactions into accounting numbers, (4) understanding the rationale for various accounting methods, and (5) awareness of the judgment involved and the discretion allowed in choosing accounting methods, making estimates, and disclosing information in financial statements.
ACCT212 | Managerial Accounting: Base | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT212 | instructors:Marinovic, I. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:This course provides an introduction to the concepts and tools of managerial accounting. The first part of the course covers alternative costing methods and illustrates how the resulting cost information can be used to analyze the profitability of individual products and customers. The second part of the course will examine the role of internal accounting systems in evaluating the performance of individual business segments and divisions of the firm.  Included in this part are topics related to the choice of internal pricing methods for transferring goods and services across divisions of the firm and the use of financial metrics for assessing the profitability of these divisions.
ACCT213 | Financial Accounting - Accelerated | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT213 | instructors:Kasznik, R. (PI); Rojas, D. (GP) description:This course develops students' ability to read, understand, and use corporate financial statements. The course is oriented toward the user of financial accounting data (rather than the preparer) and emphasizes the reconstruction and interpretation of economic events from published accounting reports. The course is geared toward students with some familiarity in dealing with financial statement information and allows for deeper coverage and discussion in class.
ACCT311 | Global Financial Reporting | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT311 | instructors:Blankespoor, E. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP) description:This course is designed to enhance students' understanding of current financial reporting issues through a detailed analysis and comparison of U.S. and International Financial Reporting Standards. The course will cover the development of accounting standards, implementation of these standards, and how to interpret output from these standards. The course highlights intermediate and advanced financial reporting topics including fair value accounting, asset securitization, consolidation including special purpose entities, foreign currency translation, derivatives and hedging, leases, revenue recognition, pensions, and equity compensation. The course also focuses on evaluating emerging financial reporting issues such as proposed financial reporting standards put forth by U.S. or international standard setting bodies. This course should help students better understand the environment governing global financial reporting and how firms develop financial statement information within this environment.
ACCT313 | Accounting-Based Valuation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT313 | instructors:Piotroski, J. (PI); Williams, J. (GP) description:This course is designed to develop students' ability to interpret and use financial accounting information in an equity valuation context. The perspective taken is that of an outsider relying on publicly available financial information for investment purposes.  The course relies heavily upon financial statement analysis tools and the residual income framework for equity valuation.  Through lectures, in-depth case studies, and real-time exercises, the first half of the course covers traditional financial statement analysis-based tools for critically analyzing and assessing a firm's current financial performance and economic condition, including ratio analysis, accounting quality analysis and financial distress / bankruptcy prediction models.  The second half of the course introduces the accounting-based valuation framework and develops the link between financial statement analysis, forecasting and equity valuation.  The capstone to the course is the completion of a comprehensive, real-time valuation of a publicly traded firm (or registered IPO candidate).  The course is structured for students to gain a deeper understanding of the economic pressures behind the valuation creation and valuation process, and will be useful to those students who anticipate making investment or credit decisions at least partially based on historical and prospective financial statement information.
ACCT317 | Managerial Accounting: Performance Measurement, Compensation, and Governance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT317 | instructors:Larcker, D. (PI); Donatiello, N. (SI); Williams, J. (GP) description:The course will examine the academic and professional controversies surrounding corporate governance and executive compensation. A basic framework will be developed to integrate the many important dimensions of corporate governance in the U.S. and international settings. The institutional features of corporate governance and executive compensation will be documented using the professional business and legal literatures. In addition, the scientific research in accounting, economics, finance, and organizational behavior will be used to provide insights into the measurement and consequences of observed corporate governance and executive compensation choices. After successfully finishing the course, a student should be able to (i) understand the debates about appropriate choices for corporate governance and executive compensation and (ii) critically evaluate the implications of academic and professional research studies on these controversial issues.
ACCT332 | Mergers and Acquisitions | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT332 | instructors:Kasznik, R. (PI); Rojas, D. (GP); Catz, S. (SI) description:This course provides a comprehensive overview of accounting, economic, and financial issues related to mergers and acquisitions.  Specifically, we review the market for corporate control, discuss strategic and corporate governance issues related to firms' decision to acquire or be acquired, and examine the M&A regulatory environment (e.g., anti-trust).  We also review various pricing and deal structure considerations, and identify some of the strategies that underlay a successful negotiation.  We also review the financial reporting effects of business acquisitions and the various income tax implications of such deals.nnIn covering these and other related issues, we will discuss both the theory and practice of mergers and acquisitions. To provide some specific context we will analyze several M&A deals (e.g., Google/Motorola, HP/Compaq, UpJohn/Pharmacia, AOL/Time Warner, Oracle/PeopleSoft, and many more). In discussing these cases, we will examine the situation faced by the company, the issues surrounding the transaction, including the financial reporting implications, and focus on the managerial incentives and the judgment applied.  We will also review some of the related literature in accounting, economic, and finance, to gain broader perspectives and insights into the financial issues associated with M&A transactions. Class time comprises mini lectures that introduce some of the more technical concepts, case discussions, and guest speakers who will offer additional perspectives on the subject matters.nnThe course is co-taught by Ron Kasznik (GSB) and Safra Catz (Oracle Corporation). Ms. Catz is President of Oracle and a member of its Board of Directors. She has led Oracle through nearly 100 acquisitions in recent years (including PeopleSoft, Siebel, BEA, Sun Microsystems, and many more). Prior to joining Oracle in 1999, Ms. Catz was Managing Director at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, a global investment bank (now part of CSFB).  Ms. Catz also serves on the board of directors for HSBC Holdings plc since 2008.
ACCT333 | Taxes and Business Strategy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT333 | instructors:De Simone, L. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:Traditional business courses analyze an array of factors affecting business decisions but provide little systematic consideration of the role of taxes. By contrast, tax accounting courses traditionally concentrate on technical legal and administrative issues while ignoring the environment in which taxes enter an individual's or firm's decision. This case-based course intends to bridge this gap by providing a framework for recognizing how taxes affect strategic personal and business decisions and gaining experience analyzing a wide range of tax-related issues. The key themes of the framework - all parties, all taxes and all costs - are applied to decision contexts such as investments, retirement planning, cash and equity compensation, organizational form, tax planning for multiple jurisdictions, and M&A. The goal of this course is to provide an approach to thinking about taxes that will be valuable across jurisdictions even as laws change.
ACCT354 | Analysis and Valuation for Event-Driven Investing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT354 | instructors:McNichols, M. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Casscells, R. (SI) description:This Bass seminar is designed to develop students' ability to interpret and use financial accounting information in credit and equity valuation contexts. The course will focus on valuing the securities of companies undergoing significant changes as a result of litigation, restructuring, regulatory changes, mergers, spin-offs or significant industry shifts. Throughout the course, students will (1) enrich their understanding of how alternative economic, legal, political and regulatory outcomes affect the value of various components of a company's capital structure and (2) develop their ability to apply financial statement analysis to assess the likelihood and valuation implications of the events of interest. nnEvent-driven investing follows the life cycle of companies as they revamp their corporate structures in response to economic and regulatory environments. For example, in rising economic periods companies may undertake acquisitions or spin off divisions to enhance shareholder value. During adverse environments, bankruptcy and reorganizations often reshape the capital structure by offering opportunities to create value through the restructuring process. During economic transitions, debt and equity investors may make significantly different assessments of the quality of a company's earnings, its assets, and its likelihood to meet its debt obligations. To assess the probability of corporate events, investors must make judgments about the quality of a company's earnings and assets and understand how accounting policies may influence management's representations. Investors must also interpret how accounting policies function at various points in a firm's life cycle, influencing the quality of earnings for firms differently in different economic environments. nnIn the first half of the course, we will develop the course framework, and apply it to illustrative cases. Companies featured in past years include Tyco, AIG, CIT, Fannie Mae, Tesla and Pharmasset and Gilead. Students will interpret information from companies' public financial disclosures to assess the likelihood of different events or outcomes. The course will also feature readings on current accounting standards, articles from the popular press, publicly available financial statement information, and guest speakers with in-depth knowledge of investing strategies vis a vis the case companies. nnThe latter part of the course will be devoted to project work, with students working in teams to develop an event-driven investing strategy. The aim is to allow students to conduct independent research on a company, industry, economic context, or financial reporting environment of particular interest. Students will develop their investment idea, articulate their sense of the possible outcomes for the components of the firm's capital structure, and explain how they have assessed the likelihood and valuation consequences of those outcomes. At the conclusion of the course, students will present their strategies to the class and a panel of expert judges.
ACCT516 | Analysis and Valuation of Emerging Market Firms | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT516 | instructors:Piotroski, J. (PI); Williams, J. (GP) description:This course examines the unique institutional, governance and transparency issues affecting corporate valuations in emerging markets.  Through lectures, case discussions and the students' real-time analysis of an emerging market firm, this condensed course is structured for students to gain a deeper understanding of the economic pressures behind the value creation, value destruction and valuation process in emerging economies. The course focuses on critically interpreting financial and non-financial information for purposes of assessing firm fundamentals and risk in the presence of weak legal systems, strong political forces, limited investor protections, limited market development, strong macro-economic forces, opacity and resultant business arrangements.  The course is beneficial for entrepreneurs, consultants, investors and managers operating in or considering expansion to developing markets.
ACCT523 | Board Governance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT523 | instructors:Larcker, D. (PI); Donatiello, N. (SI); Williams, J. (GP) description:This course is focused on helping students understand the role boards and board members play in corporate governance and the lives of businesses large and small. This case-driven course is designed to help students who plan to serve on boards as private-equity or venture investors, entrepreneurs who will need to assemble and manage boards, and executives who realize they will need to interact with and answer to boards. The course is designed to help students understand the issues boards face - both routine and non-routine - through the eyes of the board member. By understanding the roles and responsibilities of board members and the mechanisms though which they exercise these duties, students will come away with an understanding of how boards function effectively (and in too many cases fail to function effectively). The course will include examining boards in a variety of contexts with a focus on three types of situations:  public for-profit companies, early-stage private companies, and non-for-profit companies of different sizes.
ACCT609 | Financial Reporting and Management Control | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT609 | instructors:Reichelstein, S. (PI) description:This course is aimed at doctoral students in accounting and neighboring fields including economics, finance, political economics and operations management. The course seeks to provide an introduction to the role of accounting information in (i) measuring firm performance, (ii) projecting profitability and firm value for external constituents, (iii) and motivating and controlling the firm's management. The main topics covered in this course include: 1. Profitability Measurement and Accrual Accounting. 2. Performance Evaluation and Managerial Incentives. 3. Accounting-based Equity Valuation. 4. The Informational Role of Accounting Numbers 5. Earnings Quality Constructs and Measures. The primary objective of the course is to introduce students to current research paradigms on these topics and to identify promising avenues for future research. The course readings include recent theoretical and empirical papers.
ACCT610 | Seminar in Empirical Accounting Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT610 | instructors:McNichols, M. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:Empirical Research on Financial Reporting: This doctoral-level course covers research on the role of accounting information in capital markets. The focus is on introducing students to key themes in empirical accounting and capital markets research, and to key research designs applied to examine information-related questions. Course topics include market efficiency, the role of accounting in providing information to investors, anomalies, alternative sources of information, accounting measurement attributes, earnings management, earnings quality, and the role of auditors in the provision of information to investors.nnThe course is interdisciplinary in nature. The readings focus on research design, and key theories, themes and approaches from the accounting, finance, economics and psychology literature. Our overall goal is not only to review existing research, but also to identify new research opportunities.
ACCT611 | Applications of Information Economics in Management and Accounting | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT611 | instructors:Marinovic, I. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:This course develops tools from information economics to study the strategic interactions between agents inside a firm and  between firm insiders and market participants. Common to these studies is that agents acquire private information that is valuable to other parties. The range of applications includes: the structure of managerial performance measures, buyer-supplier contracting arrangements, earnings management, voluntary and mandatory disclosure and financial analysts.
ACCT612 | Financial Reporting Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT612 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Love, L. (GP) description:The purpose of this PhD seminar is to facilitate your conception and execution of substantive individual research in financial reporting. It provides a vehicle for supplementing and integrating your knowledge of basic research tools and methods, as well as an exposure to the dimensions of contemporary research in the field of financial reporting. The focus of the research we will discuss in this seminar is on global financial reporting. Such research encompasses studies dealing with contemporary financial reporting issues as well as research addressing issues relating to the globalization of financial reporting. Because these issues are also of concern to financial reporting standard setters, we will discuss whether and how the research we study informs standard setting debates. Prerequisite: Consent of the instructor.
ACCT615 | Selected Topics in Empirical Accounting Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT615 | instructors:Piotroski, J. (PI); Williams, J. (GP) description:This course examines selected topics in accounting research.  The course features four faculty who will each give a focused look at a given area, introduce students to important questions in that area, key papers in the related literature, and critical aspects of the research designs applied in the area.  The aim is to increase student's familiarity with empirical accounting research, their ability to critically evaluate research and research designs, and to prepare students to conduct independent research.
ACCT691 | PhD Directed Reading (FINANCE 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MGTECON 691, MKTG 691, OB 691, OIT 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT691 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Lester, R. (PI); Longinidis, K. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Aranzamendez, O. (GP); Bligh, S. (GP); Haga, C. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Love, L. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP); Shaker, S. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP); Williams, J. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
ACCT692 | PhD Dissertation Research (FINANCE 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MGTECON 692, MKTG 692, OB 692, OIT 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT692 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Lester, R. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Aranzamendez, O. (GP); Bligh, S. (GP); Haga, C. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Longinidis, K. (GP); Love, L. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP); Shaker, S. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP); Williams, J. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
ACCT698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT698 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Lester, R. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Rojas, D. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
ACCT699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT699 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Lester, R. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Shaker, S. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP); Williams, J. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
ACCT802 | TGR Dissertation (FINANCE 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MGTECON 802, MKTG 802, OB 802, OIT 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT802 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Lester, R. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP); Williams, J. (GP) description:
