14.01SC | Principles of Microeconomics (Fall 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-01sc-principles-of-microeconomics-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jonathan Gruber term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:14.01 Principles of Microeconomics is an introductory undergraduate course that teaches the fundamentals of microeconomics. This course introduces microeconomic concepts and analysis, supply and demand analysis, theories of the firm and individual behavior, competition and monopoly, and welfare economics. Students will also be introduced to the use of microeconomic applications to address problems in current economic policy throughout the semester.This course is a core subject in MIT's undergraduate Energy Studies Minor. This Institute-wide program complements the deep expertise obtained in any major with a broad understanding of the interlinked realms of science, technology, and social sciences as they relate to energy and associated environmental challenges.
14.01 | Principles of Microeconomics (Fall 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-01-principles-of-microeconomics-fall-2007 | textbook:Pindyck, Robert S., and Daniel L. Rubinfeld. Microeconomics. 6th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Chia-Hui Chen,  Hongliang Zhang<br/>(Teaching Assistant),  Marco Migueis<br/>(Teaching Assistant),  Monica Martinez-Bravo<br/>(Teaching Assistant),  Peter Schnabl<br/>(Teaching Assistant),  Rongzhu Ke<br/>(Teaching Assistant),  William Wheaton term:Fall 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This introductory course teaches the fundamentals of microeconomics. Topics include consumer theory, producer theory, the behavior of firms, market equilibrium, monopoly, and the role of the government in the economy. 14.01 is a Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (HASS) elective and is offered both terms. This course is a core subject in MIT's undergraduate Energy Studies Minor. This Institute-wide program complements the deep expertise obtained in any major with a broad understanding of the interlinked realms of science, technology, and social sciences as they relate to energy and associated environmental challenges.
14.02 | Principles of Macroeconomics (Spring 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-02-principles-of-macroeconomics-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Francesco Giavazzi term:Spring 2014 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course provides an overview of macroeconomic issues: the determination of output, employment, unemployment, interest rates, and inflation. Monetary and fiscal policies are discussed. Important policy debates such as, the sub-prime crisis, social security, the public debt, and international economic issues are critically explored. The course introduces basic models of macroeconomics and illustrates principles with the experience of the U.S. and foreign economies.
14.02 | Principles of Macroeconomics (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-02-principles-of-macroeconomics-fall-2004 | textbook:Blanchard, Olivier. Macroeconomics. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Ricardo Caballero term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course provides an overview of the following macroeconomic issues: the determination of output, employment, unemployment, interest rates, and inflation. Monetary and fiscal policies are discussed, as are public debt and international economic issues. This course also introduces basic models of macroeconomics and illustrates principles with the experience of the United States and other economies.
14.03 | Microeconomic Theory and Public Policy (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-03-microeconomic-theory-and-public-policy-fall-2010 | textbook:[IEA] =  McAfee, R. Preston, and Tracy R. Lewis. Introduction to Economic Analysis. R. Preston McAfee, 2006. textbook:Binger, Brian R., and Elizabeth Hoffman. Microeconomics with Calculus. 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley, 1998. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Autor term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This class presents microeconomic theory and applications of consumer and producer behavior and welfare analysis at an intermediate level. In addition to standard competitive models, we study deviations due to externalities, asymmetric information, and imperfect rationality. We apply this material to policy debates including minimum wage regulations, food stamp provision, trade protection, educational credentials, health insurance markets, and real estate markets.
14.04 | Intermediate Microeconomic Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-04-intermediate-microeconomic-theory-fall-2006 | textbook:Varian, Hal R. Intermediate Microeconomics: A Modern Approach. 7th ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 2005. textbook:Jehle, Geoffrey A., and Philip J. Reny. Advanced Microeconomic Theory. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1997. textbook:Mas-Colell, Andreu, Michael D. Whinston, and Jerry R. Green. Microeconomic Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Varian, Hal R. Microeconomic Analysis. 3rd ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 1992. textbook:Osborne, Martin J. An Introduction to Game Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:Krishna, Vijay. Auction Theory. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2002. textbook:Klemperer, Paul. Auctions: Theory and Practice. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2004. textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988. textbook:Myerson, Roger B. "Optimal Auction Design." Mathematics of Operations Research 6, no. 1 (1981): 58-73. Also in Klemperer, Paul. The Economic Theory of Auctions. Northampton, Massachusetts: Elgar, 2000, pp. 207-222. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sergei Izmalkov term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course focuses on the following topics: basic theory of consumer behavior; production and costs; partial equilibrium analysis of pricing in competitive and monopolistic markets; general equilibrium; welfare; and externalities. It is recommended for students planning to apply to graduate school in economics, accounting, or finance.
14.05 | Intermediate Macroeconomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-05-intermediate-macroeconomics-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:George-Marios Angeletos term:Spring 2013 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), This Course at MIT description:This course uses the tools of macroeconomics to study various macroeconomic policy problems in-depth. The problems range from economic growth in the long run, to government finances in the intermediate run, and economic stability in the short run. Many economic models used today are surveyed.
14.06 | Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory (Spring 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-06-intermediate-macroeconomic-theory-spring-2004 | textbook:The main text for the course is  Romer, David. Advanced Macroeconomics , 2nd ed. New York: McGraw Hill, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:George-Marios Angeletos term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course is a survey of modern macroeconomics at a quite advanced level. Topics include the neoclassical growth model, overlapping generations, endogenous growth models, business cycles, incomplete nominal adjustment, incomplete financial markets, fiscal and monetary policy, consumption and savings, and unemployment. The course is also an introduction to the mathematical tools used in modern macroeconomics, including dynamic systems, optimal control, and dynamic programming.
14.06 | Intermediate Macroeconomic Theory (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-06-intermediate-macroeconomic-theory-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Huntley Schaller term:Spring 2003 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course is a survey of modern macroeconomics at a fairly advanced level. Topics include neoclassical and new&amp; growth theory, consumption and saving behavior, investment, and unemployment. It also includes use of the dynamic programming techniques. Assignments include problem sets and written discussions of macroeconomic events. This course is recommended for students planning to apply to graduate school in economics.
14.11 | Insights from Game Theory into Social Behavior | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-11-insights-from-game-theory-into-social-behavior-fall-2013 | textbook:Pinker, Steven. "Hotheads." Chapter 6 in How the Mind Works. W. W. Norton & Company, 2009. textbook:Frank, Robert H. Chapter 1, and Chapter 3 in Passions Within Reason: The Strategic Role of the Emotions. W. W. Norton & Company, 1988. textbook:Axelrod, Robert, and Richard Dawkins. "The Success of TIT for TAT in Computer Tournaments," and "The Live–and–Let–Live System in Trench Warfare in World War I." Chapter 2, and 4 in The Evolution of Cooperation. Basic Books, 2006. textbook:Chwe, Michael Suk–Young. "Preface and Introduction." In Rational Ritual: Culture, Coordination, and Common Knowledge. Princeton University Press, 2013. level:Undergraduate instructors:Moshe Hoffman,  Erez Yoeli term:Fall 2013 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), This Course at MIT description:We will apply insights from game theory to explain human social behavior, focusing on novel applications which have heretofore been the realm of psychologists and philosophers&mdash;for example, why people speak indirectly, in what sense beauty is socially constructed, and where our moral intuitions come from&mdash;and eschewing traditional economic applications such as industrial organization or auctions.  We will employ standard games such as the prisoners dilemma, coordination, hawk-dove, and costly signaling, and use standard game theory tools such as Nash Equilibria, Subgame Perfection, and Perfect Bayesian Equilibria. These tools will be taught from scratch and no existing knowledge of game theory, economics, or mathematics is required.  At the same time, students familiar with these games and tools will not find the course redundant because of the focus on non-orthodox applications.
14.11 | Putting Social Sciences to the Test: Field Experiments in Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-11-putting-social-sciences-to-the-test-field-experiments-in-economics-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:David Autor,  Esther Duflo term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:14.11 is a new class on the topic of field (that is, 'in situ') and laboratory experiments in the social sciences - both what these experiments have taught and can teach us and how to conduct them.
14.12 | Economic Applications of Game Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-12-economic-applications-of-game-theory-fall-2012 | textbook:Dutta, Prajit. Strategies and Games: Theory and Practice. MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Watson, Joel. Strategy: An Introduction to Game Theory. W.W. Norton & Company, 2007. textbook:Kreps, David. A Course in Microeconomic Theory. Princeton University Press, 1990. textbook:Fudenberg, Drew, and Jean Tirole. Game Theory. MIT Press, 1991. textbook:Osborne, Martin, and Ariel Rubinstein.  A Course in Game Theory. MIT Press, 1994. textbook:Dixit, Avinash, and Susan Sekeath. Games of Strategy.  W.W. Norton & Company, 2009. textbook:[Gibbons] =  Gibbons, Robert.  Game Theory for Applied Economists.  Princeton University Press, 1992. level:Undergraduate instructors:Muhamet Yildiz term:Fall 2012 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Game Theory, also known as Multiperson Decision Theory, is the analysis of situations in which the payoff of a decision maker depends not only on his own actions but also on those of others. Game Theory has applications in several fields, such as economics, politics, law, biology, and computer science. In this course, I will introduce the basic tools of game theoretic analysis. In the process, I will outline some of the many applications of Game Theory, primarily in economics.
14.13 | Economics and Psychology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-13-economics-and-psychology-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Xavier Gabaix term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course integrates psychological insights into economic models of behavior. It discusses the limitations of standard economic models and surveys the ways in which psychological experiments have been used to learn about preferences, cognition, and behavior. Topics include: trust, vengeance, fairness, impatience, impulsivity, bounded rationality, learning, reinforcement, classical conditioning, loss-aversion, over-confidence, self-serving biases, cognitive dissonance, altruism, subjective well-being, and hedonic adaptation. Economic concepts such as equilibrium, rational choice, utility maximization, Bayesian beliefs, game theory, and behavior under uncertainty are discussed in light of these phenomena.
14.15J | Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-15j-networks-fall-2009 | textbook:[EK] =  Easley, David, and Jon Kleinberg. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning about a Highly Connected World. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2010. textbook:[Jackson] =  Jackson, Matthew O. Social and Economic Networks. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:[Osborne] =  Osborne, Martin J. Introduction to Game Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:[Gibbons] =  Gibbons, Robert. Game Theory for Applied Economists. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1992. textbook:[Gladwell] =  Gladwell, Malcom. The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference. Boston, MA: Little, Brown and Co, 2002. textbook:[Surowiecki] =  Surowiecki, James. The Wisdom of Crowds: Why the Many Are Smarter Than the Few and How Collective Wisdom Sharpens Business, Economies, Societies, and Nations. New York, NY: Doubleday Publishing, 2004. textbook:[Barabasi] =  Barabasi, Albert-Laszlo. Linked: How Everything Is Connected to Everything Else and What It Means for Business, Science, and Everyday Life. New York, NY: Penguin, 2003. textbook:[Schelling] =  Schelling, Thomas C. Micromotives and Macrobehavior. Revised ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton and Co., 2006. textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daron Acemoglu,  Asu Ozdaglar term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Networks are ubiquitous in our modern society. The World Wide Web that links us to and enables information flows with the rest of the world is the most visible example. It is, however, only one of many networks within which we are situated. Our social life is organized around networks of friends and colleagues. These networks determine our information, influence our opinions, and shape our political attitudes. They also link us, often through important but weak ties, to everybody else in the United States and in the world. Economic and financial markets also look much more like networks than anonymous marketplaces. Firms interact with the same suppliers and customers and use Web-like supply chains. Financial linkages, both among banks and between consumers, companies and banks, also form a network over which funds flow and risks are shared. Systemic risk in financial markets often results from the counterparty risks created within this financial network. Food chains, interacting biological systems and the spread and containment of epidemics are some of the other natural and social phenomena that exhibit a marked networked structure.This course will introduce the tools for the study of networks. It will show how certain common principles permeate the functioning of these diverse networks and how the same issues related to robustness, fragility, and interlinkages arise in several different types of networks.
14.20 | Industrial Organization and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-20-industrial-organization-and-public-policy-spring-2003 | textbook:The course will rely heavily on the required textbook:   Jeffrey Church and Roger Ware, Industrial Organization: A Strategic Approach (Irwin McGraw-Hill, 2000, 1st edition). level:Undergraduate instructors:Nancy Rose term:Spring 2003 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This is a course in industrial organization, the study of firms in markets. Industrial organization focuses on firm behavior in imperfectly competitive markets, which appear to be far more common than the perfectly competitive markets that were the focus of your basic microeconomics course. This field analyzes the acquisition and use of market power by firms, strategic interactions among firms, and the role of government competition policy. We will approach this subject from both theoretical and applied perspectives.
14.23 | Government Regulation of Industry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-23-government-regulation-of-industry-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Michael Pollitt term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The objective of this course is to introduce you to the role of government in markets where competitive equilibria &#8220;fail.&#8221; In this course we will emphasize the importance of market structure and industrial performance, including the strategic interaction of firms. We will examine the behavior of individual markets in some detail, focusing on cost analysis, the determinants of market demand, investment behavior, market power, and the implications of government regulatory behavior. The course will be broken into three parts. In the first part, we will review firm behavior and the theory of the market. Here, we will discuss perfectly competitive markets (our &#8220;benchmark&#8221;), efficiency, market structure, strategic competition, and productivity. Once the foundations of the market are well understood, we will then move on to the second part of the course, where we will study &#8220;economic&#8221; regulation. Here, we will look at the behavior of natural monopolies and regulatory options for dealing with them. And in the third part of the course, we will study &#8220;social&#8221; regulation&#8212;focusing on environmental, health, and safety regulation.
14.27 | Economics and E-Commerce | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-27-economics-and-e-commerce-fall-2014 | textbook:[C&W] =  Church, Jeffrey, and Roger Ware. Industrial Organization: A Strategic Approach. McGraw-Hill, 1999. textbook:[PRN] =  Pepall, Lynne, Dan Richards, and George Norman. Industrial Organization: Contemporary Theory and Empirical Applications. Wiley-Blackwell, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sara Ellison term:Fall 2014 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course uses theoretical models and empirical studies to help understand the economics behind various internet businesses.  We will begin with a discussion of relevant topics from industrial organization (IO) including monopoly pricing, price discrimination, product differentiation, and barriers to entry.  The main part of the course will be a discussion of a number of online businesses.  In the context of those businesses, we will discuss extensions and applications of the ideas from the first section of the course.
14.28 | Competition in Telecommunications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-020-competition-in-telecommunications-fall-2003 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jerry Hausman term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:Competition in Telecommunications provides an introduction to the economics, business strategies, and technology of telecommunications markets.&nbsp;This includes markets for wireless communications, local and long-distance services, and customer equipment. The convergence of computers, cable TV and telecommunications and the competitive emergence of the Internet are covered in depth. A number of speakers from leading companies in the industry will give course lectures.
14.30 | Introduction to Statistical Methods in Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-30-introduction-to-statistical-methods-in-economics-spring-2009 | textbook:[LM] = Larsen, R., and M. Marx. Introduction to Mathematical Statistics and Its Applications. 4th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2005. textbook:[DS] = DeGroot, M., and M. Schervish. Probability and Statistics. 3rd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2001. textbook:[L] = Lindgren, B. Statistical Theory. 4th ed. New York, NY: Chapman and Hall, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Konrad Menzel term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course will provide a solid foundation in probability and statistics for economists and other social scientists. We will emphasize topics needed for further study of econometrics and provide basic preparation for 14.32. Topics include elements of probability theory, sampling theory, statistical estimation, and hypothesis testing.
14.30 | Introduction to Statistical Method in Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-30-introduction-to-statistical-method-in-economics-spring-2006 | textbook:[ROS]: Ross, Sheldon M. Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists. 3rd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2004. textbook:[LM]: Larsen, Richard J., and Morris L. Marx. An Introduction to Mathematical Statistics and its Applications. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Herman Bennett term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is a self-contained introduction to statistics with economic applications. Elements of probability theory, sampling theory, statistical estimation, regression analysis, and hypothesis testing. It uses elementary econometrics and other applications of statistical tools to economic data. It also provides a solid foundation in probability and statistics for economists and other social scientists. We will emphasize topics needed in the further study of econometrics and provide basic preparation for 14.32. No prior preparation in probability and statistics is required, but familiarity with basic algebra and calculus is assumed.
14.32 | Econometrics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-32-econometrics-spring-2007 | textbook:Wooldridge, Jeffrey M. Introductory Econometrics: A Modern Approach. 3rd ed. Mason, OH: Thomson/South-Western, 2006. textbook:Goldberger, Arthur S. A Course in Econometrics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1991. textbook:DeGroot, Morris H., and Mark J. Schervish. Probability and Statistics. 3rd ed. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2001. textbook:Card, David E., and Alan B. Krueger. Myth and Measurement: The New Economics of the Minimum Wage. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1995, chapters 1 to 4. textbook:Freeman, R., and A. Castillo-Freeman. "When the Minimum Wage Really Bites: The Effect of the US-Level Minimum on Puerto Rico." In Immigration and the Work Force: Economic Consequences for the United States and Source Areas. Edited by G. Borjas and R. Freeman. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1992. level:Undergraduate instructors:Joshua Angrist term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:Introduction to econometric models and techniques, simultaneous equations, program evaluation, emphasizing regression. Advanced topics include instrumental variables, panel data methods, measurement error, and limited dependent variable models. May not count toward HASS requirement.
14.33 | Economics Research and Communication (Spring 2012) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-33-economics-research-and-communication-spring-2012 | textbook:Greenlaw, Steven A. Doing Economics: A Guide to Understanding and Carrying Out Economic Research. South-Western College Publishers, 2005. textbook:Neugeboren, Robert H. The Student's Guide to Writing Economics. Routledge, 2005. textbook:Thomson, William. A Guide for the Young Economist. MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Berndt, Ernst R. The Practice of Econometrics: Classic and Contemporary. Addison Wesley, 1996. textbook:Strunk, William, and E. B. White. The Elements of Style. Longman, 1999. textbook:Everitt, Brian S., and Sophia Rabe-Hesketh. A Handbook of Statistical Analyses Using Stata. Chapman and Hall/CRC, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sara Ellison term:Spring 2012 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course will guide students through the process of forming economic hypotheses, gathering the appropriate data, analyzing them, and effectively communicating their results.
14.33 | Economics Research and Communication (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-33-economics-research-and-communication-spring-2005 | textbook:Johnston, John. Econometric Methods. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1971. textbook:McCloskey, Donald N. The Writing of Economics. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1986. textbook:Neugeboren, Robert H. Students Guide to Writing Economics. New York, NY: Routledge, 2005. textbook:Pindyck, Robert S., and Daniel L. Rubinfeld. Econometric Models and Economic Forecasts. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997. textbook:Strunk, William Jr., and E. B. White. The Elements of Style. Boston, MA: Longman, 1999. textbook:Thomson, William. A Guide for the Young Economist. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Michael Greenstone term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course is for students interested in conducting original research on economics questions. There will be an emphasis on choice of research topics, primary sources, data sources, and research methods. The primary activities are oral presentations, the preparation of a paper, and providing constructive feedback on classmates' research projects.
14.41 | Public Finance and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-41-public-finance-and-public-policy-fall-2010 | textbook:Gruber, Jonathan. Public Finance and Public Policy. 3rd ed. Worth Publishers, 2009. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jonathan Gruber term:Fall 2010 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Explores the role of government in the economy, applying tools of basic microeconomics to answer important policy questions such as government response to global warming, school choice by K-12 students, Social Security versus private retirement savings accounts, government versus private health insurance, setting income tax rates for individuals and corporations.
14.42 | Environmental Policy and Economics (Spring 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-42-environmental-policy-and-economics-spring-2011 | textbook:[Kolstad] =  Kolstad, Charles. Environmental Economics. 2nd ed. Oxford University Press, 2010. textbook:[EESR] =  Stavins, Rober, ed. Economics of the Environment: Selected Readings. 4th ed. W. W. Norton Co., 2000. textbook:[RFF] =  Oates, Wallace, ed. The RFF Reader in Environmental and Resource Management. Resources for the Future, 1999. textbook:Portney, Paul R., and Robert N. Stavins, eds. "Introduction." Chapter 1 in Public Policies for Environmental Protection. 2nd ed. Resources for the Future, 2000. textbook:Portney, Paul R. "EPA and the Evolution of Federal Regulation." Chapter 2 in Public Policies for Environmental Protection. Edited by Paul Portney and Robert Stavins. 2nd ed. Resources for the Future, 2000. textbook:Revesz, Richard, and Michael Livermore. Retaking Rationality: How Cost Benefit Analysis Can Better Protect the Environment and Our Health. Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Ackerman, Frank, and Lisa Heinzerling. Priceless: On Knowing the Price of Everything and the Value of Nothing. The New Press, 2005. (Read chapters 1, 2, and 9) textbook:Jaffe, Adam B., Richard G. Newell, and Robert N. Stavins. "Technology Policy for Energy and the Environment." In Innovation Policy and the Economy. Vol. 4. Edited by Adam B. Jaffe, Josh Lerner, and Scott Stern. MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Braden, John B., Charles D. Kolstad, and David Miltz. 1998. "Introduction." Chapter 1 in Measuring the Demand for Environmental Quality. Edited by John B. Braden and Charles D. Kolstad. Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 1998. textbook:Freeman III., A Myrick. "Property Value Models." Chapter 11 in The Measurement of Environmental and Resource Values. RFF Press, 1993. textbook:Johanneson, Magnus, Per-Olov Johansson, Bengt Kristom, and Tore Soderqvist. "Valuing Changes in Health: Theoretical and Empirical Issues." In Current Issues in Environmental Economics. Edited by Per-Olov Johansson, Bengt Kristom, and Karl-Goran Maler. Manchester University Press, 1995. textbook:Smith, V. Kerry. "Household Production Functions and Environmental Benefit Estimation." Chapter 3 in Measuring the Demand for Environmental Quality. Edited by John B. Braden and Charles D. Kolstad. Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 1998. textbook:Sweeney, James. "Economic Theory of Depletable Resources: An Introduction." Chapter 17 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. III. Edited by Allen V. Kneese and James L. Sweeney. Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:Heal, Geoffrey. "The Optimal Use of Exhaustible Resources." Chapter 18 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. III. Edited by Allen V. Kneese and James L. Sweeney. Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:Munro, Gordon, and Anthony Scott. "The Economics of Fisheries Management." Chapter 14 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. III. Edited by Allen V. Kneese and James L. Sweeney. Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Hunt Allcott term:Spring 2011 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course explores the proper role of government in the regulation of the environment. It will help students develop the tools to estimate the costs and benefits of environmental regulations. These tools will be used to evaluate a series of current policy questions, including: Should air and water pollution regulations be tightened or loosened? What are the costs of climate change in the U.S. and abroad? Is there a &quot;Race to the Bottom&quot; in environmental regulation? What is &quot;sustainable development&quot;? How do environmental problems differ in developing countries? Are we running out of oil and other natural resources? Should we be more energy efficient?  To gain real world experience, the course is scheduled to include a visit to the MIT cogeneration plant. We will also do an in-class simulation of an air pollution emissions market.
14.43J | Energy Decisions, Markets, and Policies | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-031j-energy-decisions-markets-and-policies-spring-2012 | textbook:[B] =  Brealey, R., S. Myers, and F. Allen. Principles of Corporate Finance. 10th ed. McGraw-Hill, 2010. textbook:[G] =  Giugni, M., D. McAdam, C. Tilly, eds. How Social Movements Matter. University of Minnesota Press, 1999. textbook:[V] =  Viscusi, W. Kip, Joseph E. Harrington, Jr., and John M. Vernon. Economics of Regulation and Antitrust. 4th ed. MIT Press, 2005. textbook:U.S. National Research Council. "Context and Challenges." Chapter 1 in America's Energy Future. National Academies Press, 2009, pp. 1–30. textbook:Friedman, T. "Our Carbon Copies (Too Many Americans)." Chapter 3 in Hot, Flat, and Crowded. Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2008, pp. 53–76. textbook:United Nations. 2008 Energy Balances and Electricity Profiles. United Nations, 2011. textbook:National Research Council. "Executive Summary." In Hidden Costs of Energy: Unpriced Consequences of Energy Production and Use. National Academies Press, 2009. textbook:Lee, Henry. "Oil Security and the Transportation Sector." In Acting in Time on Energy Policy. Edited by K. S. Gallagher. Brookings, 2009, pp. 56–88. textbook:Weimer, D. L. "Cost-Benefit Analysis." In The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics. Edited by S. N. Durlauf and L. E. Blume. 2nd ed. Vol. 2. Palgrave Macmillan, 2008, pp. 271–5. textbook:Kelman, S. "Cost-Benefit Analysis: An Ethical Critique (with replies)." In Economics of the Environment: Selected Readings. Edited by R. N. Stavins. 5th ed. W. W. Norton & Company, 2005, pp. 260–75. textbook:Mason, Alpheus Thomas, and William M. Beaney. "Carter v Carter Coal, 298 U.S. 238 (1936)." In American Constitutional Law: Introductory Essays and Selected Cases. Prentice Hall, 2004, pp. 290–6. textbook:Friedman, Milton. Capitalism and Freedom. 40th Anniversary ed. University of Chicago Press, 2002, pp. 12–6. textbook:Hayek, Friedrich. The Road to Serfdom: Text and Documents—The Definitive Edition. University of Chicago Press, 2007, pp. 71–3. textbook:Marx, Karl. The 18th Braumaire of Louis Napoleon. Originally published in 1852. Dodo Press, 2009, p. 15. textbook:Frankfurt Institute for Social Research. Aspects of Sociology. Edited by Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno. First published in 1956. Beacon Press, 1973, pp. 38–48. textbook:Hughes, T. P. "London: The Primacy of Politics." Chapter IX in Networks of Power: Electrification in Western Society, 1880-1930. Johns Hopkins, 1983, pp. 227–60. textbook:Weber, Max. "Social Action and Social Relationship." In The Theory of Social and Economic Organization. First published in 1922, translated in 1964. Martino Fine Books, 2012, reprinted pp. 128–43. textbook:Pindyck, R., and D. Rubinfeld. Microeconomics. 7th ed. Prentice Hall, 2008, pp. 551–68. textbook:Pindyck, R., and D. Rubinfeld. Microeconomics. 7th ed. Prentice Hall, 2008, pp. 573–7. textbook:Tietenberg, T., and L. Lewis. "The Allocation of Depletable and Renewable Resources: An Overview." In Environmental & Natural Resource Economics. 8th ed. Addison-Wesley, 2008, pp. 134–55. textbook:Griffin, J. M., and S. L. Puller. "Introduction: A Primer on Electricity and the Economics of Deregulation." In Electricity Deregulation: Choices and Challenges (Bush School Series in the Economics of Public Policy). University Of Chicago Press, 2005. textbook:Whitt, J. A. Urban Elites and Mass Transportation: The Dialectics of Power. Princeton University Press, 1982, pp. 3–39, 174–210. textbook:Wilson, J. Q., ed. "The Politics of Regulation." In The Politics of Regulation. Basic Books, 1982, pp. 357–94. textbook:Sandel, M. J. "It's Immoral to Buy the Right to Pollute (with replies)." In Economics of the Environment: Selected Readings. Edited by R. N. Stavins. 5th ed. Norton, 2005, pp. 355–8. level:Undergraduate instructors:Richard Schmalensee term:Spring 2012 features:Video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course examines the choices and constraints regarding sources and uses of energy by households, firms, and governments through a number of frameworks to describe and explain behavior at various levels of aggregation. Examples include a wide range of countries, scope, settings, and analytical approaches. This course is one of many OCW Energy Courses, and it is a core subject in MIT's undergraduate Energy Studies Minor. This Institute-wide program complements the deep expertise obtained in any major with a broad understanding of the interlinked realms of science, technology, and social sciences as they relate to energy and associated environmental challenges.
14.44 | Energy Economics (Spring 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-44-energy-economics-spring-2007 | textbook:Pindyck, R., and D. Rubinfeld. Microeconomics. 6th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2005. textbook:*** Slade, M., C. Kolstad, and R. Weiner. "Buying Energy and Nonfuel Minerals." Chapter 20 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. 3. Edited by A. Kneese and J. Sweeney. San Diego, CA: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:** Heal, G. "The Optimal Use of Exhaustible Resources." Chapter 18 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. 3. Edited by A. Kneese and J. Sweeney. San Diego, CA: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:* Deffeyes, K. Hubbert's Peak: The Impending World of Oil Shortage. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2001, chapter 1. level:Undergraduate instructors:Paul Joskow term:Spring 2007 features:Images on Flickr description:This course explores the theoretical and empirical perspectives on individual and industrial demand for energy, energy supply, energy markets, and public policies affecting energy markets. It discusses aspects of the oil, natural gas, electricity, and nuclear power sectors and examines energy tax, price regulation, deregulation, energy efficiency and policies for controlling emission.
14.48J | Economics of Education | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/urban-studies-and-planning/11-126j-economics-of-education-spring-2007 | textbook:Freeman, Richard B. The Overeducated American. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1976, chapters 1-3. textbook:Bransford, John, Ann Brown, and Rodney Cocking, eds. "How Experts Differ from Novices." Chapter 2 in How People Learn: Brain, Mind, Experience and School. Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 2000. textbook:Murray, Nick. "Planning for the Five Great Goals of Life." Chapter 8 in The Excellent Investment Advisor. Mattituck, NY: The Nick Murray Company, Inc., 1996. textbook:Murnane, Richard J., and Frank Levy. "Evidence from Fifteen Schools in Austin Texas." Chapter 4 in Does Money Matter? Edited by Gary Burtless. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 1996. textbook:Clotfelter, Charles T., and Helen F. Ladd. "Recognizing and Rewarding Success in Public Schools." Chapter 2 in Holding Schools Accountable. Edited by Helen Ladd. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 1996. textbook:Murnane, Richard J., and Frank Levy. "The Fourth Principle: Measure Progress Regularly." Chapter 7 in Teaching the New Basic Skills: Principles for Educating Children to Thrive in a Changing Economy. New York, NY: Free Press, 1996. textbook:Murnane, Richard J., and Frank Levy. "The Third Principle: Train the Frontline Workers." Chapter 6 in Teaching the New Basic Skills: Principles for Educating Children to Thrive in a Changing Economy. New York, NY: Free Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Frank Levy term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This class discusses the economic aspects of current issues in education, using both economic theory and econometric and institutional readings. Topics include discussion of basic human capital theory, the growing impact of education on earnings and earnings inequality, statistical issues in determining the true rate of return to education, the labor market for teachers, implications of the impact of computers on the demand for worker skills, the effectiveness of mid-career training for adult workers, the roles of school choice, charter schools, state standards and educational technology in improving K-12 education, and the issue of college financial aid.
14.49 | Information Technology and the Labor Market | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/urban-studies-and-planning/11-128-information-technology-and-the-labor-market-spring-2005 | textbook:Levy, Frank. "Industrial Change: Is There Life After the Service Sector?" and "Occupational Change: Can the Economy Still Produce Good Jobs, and, If So, Who Gets Them?" Chapters 4 and 5 respectively in The New Dollars and Dreams. New York, NY: Russell Sage Foundation, 1998. textbook:Simon, Herbert. "The Corporation: Will it be Managed by Machines?" In Management and the Corporations. Edited by M. L. Anshen, and G. L. Bach. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1960, pp. 17-55. textbook:Beamish, Anne, Frank Levy, and Richard J. Murnane. "Information Technology and Skill Requirements: Examples from a Car Dealership." In Die Zukunft computergestuetzter Kfz-Diagnose. Edited by Felix Rauner, Norbert Schreier, and Georg Spoettl. Bielefeld, Germany: W. Bertelsmann Verlag, 2002. textbook:Anderson, John R. "Perception," Chapter 2, and "Conceptual Knowledge." In Cognitive Psychology and Its Implications. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman, 1995, pp. 36-73, 151-168. textbook:Duda, Richard O., Peter E. Hart, and David G. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 2001, chapter 1. textbook:Bransford, John, Ann Brown, and Rodney Cocking, eds. "How Experts Differ from Novices." Chapter 2 in How People Learn: Brain, Mind, Experience and School. Washington, DC: National Academy Press, 2000. textbook:LeDoux, Joseph. "A Few Degrees of Separation." In The Emotional Brain: The Mysterious Underpinnings of Emotional Life. New York, NY: Simon and Schuster, 1996. textbook:Murray, Nick. "Planning for the Five Great Goals of Life." Chapter 8 in The Excellent Investment Advisor. Mattituck, NY: The Nick Murray Company, Inc., 1996. textbook:Norrestradners, Tor. "The Tree of Talking." Chapter 5 in The User Illusion: Cutting Consciousness Down to Size. New York, NY: Viking Press, 1998. textbook:Levy, Frank, and Richard J. Murnane. "Computers and the Teaching of Skills." Chapter 7 in The New Division of Labor. New York, NY: Russell Sage Foundation, 2004. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Frank Levy term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course explores how information technology is reshaping different dimensions of the U.S. labor market: the way work is organized, the mix of occupations, the skills required to perform in an occupation, economy-wide labor productivity, and the distribution of wages.
14.54 | International Trade | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-54-international-trade-fall-2006 | textbook:[KO] Krugman, Paul, and Maurice Obstfeld. International Economics: Theory and Policy. Boston, MA: Addison Wesley, 2008. textbook:Obstfeld, Maurice, and Kenneth Rogoff. Foundations of International Macroeconomics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996, chapter 1, sections 1.1-1.3. textbook:Blanchard, Olivier. Macroeconomics. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003, chapters 19 to 21. level:Undergraduate instructors:Guido Lorenzoni term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to the theory of international trade and finance with applications to current policy issues. In this course we will cover the basic tools to understand what determines the flow of goods across countries, i.e. international trade, and what determines the flow of savings and investments from one country to another, i.e. international finance. We will also cover applications to a number of topics of current interest, including the debate on globalization, free trade agreements, the U.S. current account deficit, the medium run prospects for exchange rates, European integration, and the debate on global financial architecture following the financial crises in East Asia and Argentina. 
14.64 | Labor Economics and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-64-labor-economics-and-public-policy-fall-2009 | textbook:[Borjas] =  Borjas, George J. Labor Economics. 5th ed. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 2010. textbook:Borjas, George J. Labor Economics. 4th ed. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 2008. textbook:[Angrist and Krueger] =  Angrist, Joshua, and Alan Krueger. "Empirical Strategies in Labor Economics." Chapter 23 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Orley C. Ashenfelter and David Card. San Diego, CA: Elsevier, Inc., 1999, pp. 1277-1366. textbook:Angrist, Joshua, and Jörn-Steffen Pischke. Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2009. textbook:[Nicholson and Snyder] =  Nicholson, Walter, and Christopher Snyder. Microeconomic Theory: Basic Principles and Extensions. 10th ed. Mason, OH: Thomson/South-Western, 2008. textbook:[Deaton and Muellbauer] =  Deaton, Angus, and John Muellbauer. Economics and Consumer Behavior. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1980. textbook:[Blau, et al.] =  Blau, Francine D., Marianne A. Ferber, and Anne E. Winkler. The Economics of Women, Men, and Work. 6th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2009. textbook:[Lang] =  Lang, Kevin. Poverty and Discrimination. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2007. textbook:Goldin, Claudia. "Labor Markets in the 20th Century." National Bureau of Economic Research Historical Working Paper No. 58, June 1994. Also available as  chapter 10 in Cambridge Economic History of the United States. Vol. 3. Edited by Stanley L. Engerman and Robert E. Gallman. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000, pp. 549-624. textbook:Moffitt, Robert. "Welfare Programs and Labor Supply." Chapter 34 in The Handbook of Public Economics. Vol. IV. Edited by Alan J. Auerbach and Martin Feldstein. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland, 2002, pp. 2394-2430. textbook:Card, David. "The Causal Effect of Education on Earnings." Chapter 30 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and David Card. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1999, pp. 1801-1863. textbook:Katz, Lawrence, and David Autor. "Changes in the Wage Structure and Earnings Inequality." Chapter 26 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and David Card. San Diego, CA: Elsevier, 1999, pp. 1463-1555. textbook:Farber, Henry. "Analysis of Union Behavior." Chapter 18 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. II. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and Richard Layard. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland, 1986, 1039-1089. textbook:Lewis, H. Gregg. Union Relative Wage Effects: A Survey. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1986. level:Undergraduate instructors:Joshua Angrist term:Fall 2009 features:Assignments and solutions description:This course is an introduction to labor economics with an emphasis on applied microeconomic theory and empirical analysis. We are especially interested in the link between research and public policy. Topics to be covered include: labor supply and demand, taxes and transfers, minimum wages, immigration, human capital, education production, inequality, discrimination, unions and strikes, and unemployment.
14.70J | Medieval Economic History in Comparative Perspective | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/history/21h-134j-medieval-economic-history-in-comparative-perspective-spring-2012 | textbook:[Hawthorn] =  Hawthorn, Geoffrey, ed. The Standard of Living: Tanner Lectures. Cambridge University Press, 1989. textbook:[Persson] =  Persson, Karl Gunnar. An Economic History of Europe. Cambridge University Press, 2010. textbook:Hatcher, John, and Mark Bailey. Modeling the Middle Ages: The History and Theory of England's Economic Development. Oxford University Press, 2001, pp. 1–10. textbook:Duby, Georges. Early Growth of the European Economy. Cornell University Press, 1974, pp. 162–80. textbook:Fossier, Robert. Chapter 2 in Peasant Life in the Medieval West. Blackwell Pub, 1988. textbook:Genicot, Leopold. Chapter 1 in Rural Communities in the Medieval West. Johns Hopkins University Press, 1990. textbook:De Joinville, Jean. "The Book of the Holy Words and Good Deeds of Our King, Saint Louis (1309)." The Medieval Record: Sources of Medieval History. Selected by Alfred J. Andrea. Wadsworth Publishing, 1997. pp. 367–70. textbook:Mortensen, Lars Boje. A selection from Historia Norwegie. Museum Tusculanum Press, 2003. textbook:Campbell, Bruce. "Economic Rent and the Intensification of English Agriculture, 1086–1350." In Medieval Farming and Technology: The Impact of Agricultural Change in Northwest Europe. Edited by G. Astill and J. Langdon. Brill Academic Pub, 1997, pp. 225–50. textbook:Lopez, Robert. Chapter 3 in The Commercial Revolution of the Middle Ages, 950–1350. Cambridge University Press, 1976, pp. 56–84. textbook:Lopez Robert S., Iriving W. Raymond, Olivia Remie Constable, et al. "The Jewish Role in World Trade," "Milan in 1288," "Reports from the Fairs of Champagne," "The Great Fair at Thessalonika" and "Traveling to China." Selections from Medieval Trade in the Mediterranean World. Columbia University Press. textbook:Harvey, Barbara. "Introduction: The Crisis of the Early Fourteenth Century." In Before the Black Death: Studies in 'Crisis' of the Early Fourteenth Century. Edited by Bruce Campbell. St. Martin's Press, 1991, pp. 1–24. textbook:Knighton, Henry.  Selections from Chronicle 1348. Oxford University Press, 1996. textbook:Columbus, Christopher, et al. selections from The Diario of Christopher Columbus's first voyage to America, 1492–1493. University of Oklahoma Press, 1989. textbook:Wrigley, E. A., and R. S. Schofield. Population History of England. Cambridge University Press, 1989, tables from pp. 468 and 474. textbook:Rosenthal, Jean Laurent, and R. Bin. Wong. Chapters 1 and 2 in Before and Beyond Divergence. Harvard Press, 2011. textbook:Braudel, Fernand. The Wheels of Commerce. University of California Press, 1992, pp. 231–49. textbook:de Vries, Jan. "Economic Growth before and after the Industrial Revolution: a Modest Proposal." In Early Modern Capitalism. Edited by Maarten Prak. Routledge, 2001. textbook:Recommended: Mokyr, Joel. "Dear Labor, cheap Labor, and the Industrial Revolution." In Favorites of Fortune. Edited by Patrice Higonnet, David S. Landes and Henry Rosovsky. Harvard University Press, 1991. level:Undergraduate instructors:Anne McCants term:Spring 2012 features:Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course will survey the conditions of material life and changing social and economic conditions in medieval Europe with reference to the comparative context of contemporary Islamic, Chinese, and central Asian experiences. Subject covers the emergence and decline of feudal institutions, the transformation of peasant agriculture, living standards and the course of epidemic disease, and the ebb and flow of long-distance trade across the Eurasian system. Particular emphasis will be placed on the study of those factors, both institutional and technological, which have contributed to the emergence of capitalist organization and economic growth in Western Europe in contrast to the trajectories followed by the other major medieval economies.
14.71 | Economic History of Financial Crises | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-71-economic-history-of-financial-crises-fall-2009 | textbook:Bartels, Larry M. Unequal Democracy: The Political Economy of the New Gilded Age. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Crafts, Nicholas, and Gianni Toniolo. Economic Growth in Europe since 1945. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Goldin, Claudia, and Lawrence F. Katz. The Race between Education and Technology. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:[Koo] = Koo, Richard C. The Holy Grail of Macroeconomics: Lessons from Japan's Great Recession. Rev. ed. New York, NY: Norton, 2009. textbook:Kindleberger, Charles P., and Jean-Pierre Laffargue. Financial Crises: Theory, History, and Policy. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1982. textbook:[Morris] = Morris, Charles R. The Two Trillion Dollar Meltdown: Easy Money, High Rollers, and the Great Credit Crash. New York, NY: Public Affairs, 2009. textbook:Taylor, John B. Getting off Track: How Government Actions and Interventions Caused, Prolonged, and Worsened the Financial Crisis. Stanford, CA: Hoover Institution Press, 2009. textbook:[Temin] = Temin, Peter. Lessons from the Great Depression. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Duncan-Jones, Richard. Money and Government in the Roman Empire. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1998, pp. 23-25. textbook:Minsky, Hyman P. "The Financial-Instability Hypothesis: Capitalist Processes and the Behavior of the Economy." Chapter 2 in Financial Crises: Theory, History, and Policy. Edited by Charles P. Kindleberger and Jean-Pierre Laffargue. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1982, pp. 13-50. textbook:Voth, Hans-Joachim. "South Sea Bubble." In New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics. 2nd ed. Edited by Steven N. Durlauf and Lawrence E. Blume. Hampshire, United Kingdom: Palgrave Macmillan, 2008. textbook:Eichengreen, Barry. "Institutions and Economic Growth: Europe After World War II." Chapter 2 in Economic Growth in Europe since 1945. Edited by Nicholas Crafts and Gianni Toniolo. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1996, pp. 38-72. textbook:Bartels, Larry M. "The Partisan Political Economy." Chapter 2 in Unequal Democracy: The Political Economy of the New Gilded Age. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2008, pp. 29-63. textbook:Goldin, Claudia, and Lawrence F. Katz. "The Race between Education and Technology." Chapter 8 in The Race between Education and Technology. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2008, pp. 287-323. textbook:Blanchard, Olivier J., and Jordi Gali. "The Macroeconomics of Oil Shocks: Why are the 2000s So Different from the 1970s?" In International Dimensions of Monetary Policy. Edited by Jordi Gali and Mark Gertler. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2010. textbook:Taylor, John B. Getting off Track: How Government Actions and Interventions Caused, Prolonged, and Worsened the Financial Crisis. Stanford, CA: Hoover Institution Press, 2009. level:Undergraduate instructors:Peter Temin term:Fall 2009 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course gives a historical perspective on financial panics. Topics include the growth of the industrial world, the Great Depression and surrounding events, and more recent topics such as the first oil crisis, Japanese stagnation, and conditions following the financial crisis of 2008.
14.72 | Capitalism and Its Critics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-72-capitalism-and-its-critics-fall-2013 | textbook:[Rand] =  Rand, Ayn. The Fountainhead. Plume, 1994. textbook:[Watson] =  Watson, James D. The Double Helix: A Personal Account of the Discovery of the Structure of DNA. Touchstone, 2001. textbook:[Kidder] =  Kidder, Tracy. The Soul of a New Machine. Back Bay Books, 2000. textbook:Kuhn, Thomas S. "The Route to Normal Science." Chapter 2 in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions: 50th Anniversary Edition. University of Chicago Press, 2012. textbook:———. "The Nature of Normal Science." Chapter 3 in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions: 50th Anniversary Edition. University of Chicago Press, 2012. textbook:———. "The Nature and Necessity of Scientific Revolutions." Chapter 9 in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions: 50th Anniversary Edition. University of Chicago Press, 2012. textbook:———. "Revolutions as Changes of World View." Chapter 10 in The Structure of Scientific Revolutions: 50th Anniversary Edition. University of Chicago Press, 2012. textbook:Friedman, Milton. "Methodology of Positive Economics." In Essays in Positive Economics. University of Chicago Press, 1966. textbook:Friedman, Milton. Chapters 1–3, 6, 10, and 12–13 in Capitalism and Freedom: 40th Anniversary Edition. University of Chicago Press, 2002. textbook:Becker, Gary S. "The Economic Approach to Human Behavior." Chapter 1 in The Economic Approach to Human Behavior. University of Chicago Press, 1978. textbook:———. "Altruism, Egoism, and Genetic Fitness: Economics and Sociobiology." Chapter 13 in The Economic Approach to Human Behavior. University of Chicago Press, 1978. textbook:Gilder, George. "The Mandate for Capitalism." Part One in Wealth and Poverty: A New Edition for the Twenty-First Century. Regnery Publishing, 2012. textbook:Elster, Jon. "Marxist Methodology." Chapter 2 in An Introduction to Karl Marx. Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Marxian Economics." Chapter 4 in An Introduction to Karl Marx. Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Historical Materialism." Chapter 6 in An Introduction to Karl Marx. Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Class Consciousness and Class Struggle." Chapter 7 in An Introduction to Karl Marx. Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Marx's Theory of Politics." Chapter 8 in An Introduction to Karl Marx. Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:Foley, Duncan K. "The Severest Critic." Chapter 3 in Adam's Fallacy: A Guide to Economic Theology. Belknap Press, 2008. textbook:Polanyi, Karl. The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our Time. 2nd ed. Beacon Press, 2001, pp. 43–52, 68–76, 130–50, 192–200, 200–19, and 249–58. textbook:Schumpeter, Joseph A. "Can Capitalism Survive?" Part II (especially pages 121–63) in Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy. 3rd ed. Harper Perennial Modern Classics, 2008. textbook:Galbraith, John Kenneth. "The Corporation." Chapter 7 in The New Industrial State. Princeton University Press, 2007. textbook:Piore, Michael J., and Charles F. Sabel. "Mass Production as Destiny and Blind Decision." Chapter 2 in The Second Industrial Divide: Possibilities for Prosperity. Basic Books, 1986. textbook:———. "The Corporation." Chapter 3 in The Second Industrial Divide: Possibilities for Prosperity. Basic Books, 1986. textbook:———. "Possibilities for Prosperity: International Keynesianism and Flexible Specialization." Chapter 10 in The Second Industrial Divide: Possibilities for Prosperity. Basic Books, 1986. textbook:Davis, Gerald F. Managed by the Markets: How Finance Re-Shaped America. Oxford University Press, 2009, pp. 1–14, and 235–55. textbook:Thaler, Richard H., and Cass R. Sunstein. "Introduction." In Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness. Revised and expanded edition. Penguin Books, 2009. textbook:———. "Biases and Blunders." Chapter 1 in Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness. Revised and expanded edition. Penguin Books, 2009. textbook:Arendt, Hannah. "Vita Activa and the Human Condition." Chapter 1 in The Human Condition. 2nd ed. University of Chicago Press, 1998. textbook:———. "The Term Vita Activa." Chapter 2 in The Human Condition. 2nd ed. University of Chicago Press, 1998. textbook:———. "Eternity Versus Immortality." Chapter 5 in The Human Condition. 2nd ed. University of Chicago Press, 1998. textbook:Sacks, Oliver. Seeing Voices: A Journey into the World of the Deaf. Vintage Books, 2000. textbook:Lester, Richard K., and Michael J. Piore. Innovation—The Missing Dimension. Harvard University Press, 2004. textbook:Foley, Duncan K. "Adam's Vision." Chapter 1 in Adam's Fallacy: A Guide to Economic Theology. Belknap Press, 2008, pp. 1–4. textbook:———. "Grand Illusions." Chapter 6 in Adam's Fallacy: A Guide to Economic Theology. Belknap Press, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Michael Piore term:Fall 2013 features: description:This course addresses the evolution of the modern capitalist economy and evaluates its current structure and performance. Various paradigms of economics are contrasted and compared (neoclassical, Marxist, socioeconomic, and neocorporate) in order to understand how modern capitalism has been shaped and how it functions in today's economy. The course stresses general analytic reasoning and problem formulation rather than specific analytic techniques. Readings include classics in economic thought as well as contemporary analyses.
14.73 | The Challenge of World Poverty | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-73-the-challenge-of-world-poverty-spring-2011 | textbook:[Poor Economics] =  Banerjee, Abhijit, and Esther Duflo. Poor Economics: A Radical Rethinking of the Way to Fight Global Poverty. PublicAffairs, 2011. textbook:* Sen, Amartya. "The Great Bengal Famine." In Poverty and Famines: An Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation. Oxford University Press, 1983. textbook:* Easterly, William. "Educated for What?" In The Elusive Quest for Growth: Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics. MIT Press, 2002. textbook:* Case, Anne. "The Primacy of Education." In Understanding Poverty. Edited by Abhijit V. Banerjee, Roland Benabou, and Dilip Mookherjee. Oxford University Press, 2006. textbook:* Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, and James Robinson. "Understanding Prosperity and Poverty: Geography, Institutions, and The Reversal of Fortune." In Understanding Poverty. Edited by Abhijit V. Banerjee, Roland Benabou, and Dilip Mookherjee. Oxford University Press, 2006. textbook:Engerman, Stanley L., and Kenneth Sokoloff. "Colonialism, Inequality and Long-Run Paths of Development." In Understanding Poverty. Edited by Abhijit V. Banerjee, Roland Benabou, and Dilip Mookherjee. Oxford University Press, 2006. level:Undergraduate instructors:Esther Duflo,  Abhijit Banerjee term:Spring 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This is a course for those who are interested in the challenge posed by massive and persistent world poverty, and are hopeful that economists might have something useful to say about this challenge. The questions we will take up include: Is extreme poverty a thing of the past? What is economic life like when living under a dollar per day? Why do some countries grow fast and others fall further behind? Does growth help the poor? Are famines unavoidable? How can we end child labor&mdash;or should we? How do we make schools work for poor citizens? How do we deal with the disease burden? Is micro finance invaluable or overrated? Without property rights, is life destined to be &quot;nasty, brutish and short&quot;? Has globalization been good to the poor? Should we leave economic development to the market? Should we leave economic development to non-governmental organizations (NGOs)? Does foreign aid help or hinder? Where is the best place to intervene?
14.74 | Foundations of Development Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-74-foundations-of-development-policy-spring-2009 | textbook:[Ray] = Ray, Debraj. Development Economics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1998. textbook:*Hartmann, Betsy, and James K. Boyce. "The Trials of a Poor Peasant Family." Chapter 12 in A Quiet Violence: View from a Bangladesh Village . Oakland, CA: Food First, 1985. textbook:*The PROBE Team in association with the Centre for Development Economics. Public Report on Basic Education in India. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Deaton, Angus. The Analysis of Household Surveys: A Microeconometric Approach to Development Policy. Washington, DC: World Bank, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 1997. textbook:Deaton, Angus. The Analysis of Household Surveys: A Microeconometric Approach to Development Policy. Washington, DC: World Bank, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 1997, pp. 372-383. level:Undergraduate instructors:Esther Duflo term:Spring 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course explores the foundations of policy making in developing countries. The goal is to spell out various policy options and to quantify the trade-offs between them. We will study the different facets of human development: education, health, gender, the family, land relations, risk, informal and formal norms and institutions. This is an empirical class. For each topic, we will study several concrete examples chosen from around the world. While studying each of these topics, we will ask: What determines the decisions of poor households in developing countries? What constraints are they subject to? Is there a scope for policy (by government, international organizations, or non-governmental organizations (NGOs))? What policies have been tried out? Have they been successful?
14.75 | Political Economy and Economic Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-75-political-economy-and-economic-development-fall-2012 | textbook:Banerjee, Abhijit V., and Esther Duflo. Poor Economics: Rethinking Poverty and the Ways to End it. Random House, 2013. textbook:Easterly, William. The Elusive Quest for Growth: Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics. MIT Press, 2002. textbook:———. Controlling Corruption. University of California Press, 1991. textbook:Fisman, Raymond, and Edward Miguel. Economic Gangsters: Corruption, Violence, and the Poverty of Nations. Princeton University Press, 2010. textbook:Shepsle, Kenneth A. Analyzing Politics: Rationality, Behavior and Instititutions. 2ed. W. W. Norton & Company, 2010, pp. 90–9, 110–23. textbook:Shepsle, Kenneth A. Chapters 3, and 4 (you may also want to quickly read Chapter 2 since those chapters refer to some of the material in Chapter 2) in Analyzing Politics: Rationality, Behavior and Instititutions. W. W. Norton & Company, 2010, pp. 90–9, and  110–23. textbook:Acemoglu, Daron, and James A. Robinson. Chapters 1, 2, and 5 in Economic Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy. Cambridge University Press, 2009, pp. 118–51. textbook:Shepsle, Kenneth A. Chapters 9, and 10 in Analyzing Politics: Rationality, Behavior and Instititutions. W. W. Norton & Company, 2010. textbook:Olson, Mancur. The Logic of Collective Action: Public Goods and the Theory of Groups. Harvard University Press, 1965. textbook:Riordan, William L. "Honest Graft and Dishonest Graft." Chapter 1 in Plunkitt of Tammany Hall: A Series of Very Plain Talks on Very Practical Politics. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2013. level:Undergraduate instructors:Benjamin Olken term:Fall 2012 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course explores the relationship between political institutions and economic development, covering key theoretical issues as well as recent empirical evidence. Topics include corruption, democracy, dictatorship, and war. Discusses not just what we know on these topics, but how we know it, covering how to craft a good empirical study or field experiment and how to discriminate between reliable and unreliable evidence.
14.003 | Microeconomic Theory and Public Policy (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-03-microeconomic-theory-and-public-policy-fall-2010 | textbook:[IEA] =  McAfee, R. Preston, and Tracy R. Lewis. Introduction to Economic Analysis. R. Preston McAfee, 2006. textbook:Binger, Brian R., and Elizabeth Hoffman. Microeconomics with Calculus. 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley, 1998. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Autor term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This class presents microeconomic theory and applications of consumer and producer behavior and welfare analysis at an intermediate level. In addition to standard competitive models, we study deviations due to externalities, asymmetric information, and imperfect rationality. We apply this material to policy debates including minimum wage regulations, food stamp provision, trade protection, educational credentials, health insurance markets, and real estate markets.
14.121 | Microeconomic Theory I (Fall 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-121-microeconomic-theory-i-fall-2009 | textbook:[MWG] =  Mas-Collel, Andreu, Michael D. Whinston, and Jerry R. Green. Microeconomic Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:[JR] =  Jehle, Geoffrey, and Philip Reny. Advanced Microeconomic Theory. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 2000. textbook:[Kreps] =  Kreps, David. A Course in Microeconomic Theory. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1990. textbook:[Varian] =  Varian, Hal. Microeconomic Analysis. 3rd ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 1992. textbook:Hausman, Jerry. "Valuation of New Goods under Perfect and Imperfect Competition." In The Economics of New Goods. Edited by T. F. Bresnahan and R. J. Gordon. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1997, pp. 209-248. textbook:Topkis, Donald. Supermodularity and Complementarity. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1998. textbook:Dasgupta, P., and G. Heal. Economic Theory and Exhaustible Resources. Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press, 1979, chapter 3. textbook:Debreu, Gerard. Theory of Value: An Axiomatic Analysis of Economic Equilibrium. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1972, pp. 98-102. textbook:Roth, Alvin, and Marilda Sotomayor. Two-Sided Matching: A Study in Game-Theoretic Modeling and Analysis. Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press, 1992. level:Graduate instructors:Parag Pathak term:Fall 2009 features:Exams (no solutions) description:This half-semester course provides an introduction to microeconomic theory designed to meet the needs of students in the economics Ph.D. program. Some parts of the course are designed to teach material that all graduate students should know. Others are used to introduce methodologies. Topics include consumer and producer theory, markets and competition, general equilibrium, and tools of comparative statics and their application to price theory. Some topics of recent interest may also be covered.
14.121 | Microeconomic Theory I (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-121-microeconomic-theory-i-fall-2005 | textbook:MWG =  Mas-Colell, Andreu, Michael Whinston, and Jerry Green. Microeconomic Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:JR =  Jehle, Geoffrey, and Philip Reny. Advanced Microeconomic Theory. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Glenn Ellison term:Fall 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to microeconomic theory and is the first course in the microeconomic theory series. It is intended for graduate students in the economics program. Some components of the course are designed to teach material that all graduate students should know while others are used to introduce methodologies. Topics of recent interest will also be covered and may include: theories of production and individual choice (under certainty and uncertainty); markets and competition; tools of comparative statics and their application to price theory.
14.122 | Microeconomic Theory II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-122-microeconomic-theory-ii-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Glenn Ellison term:Fall 2002 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course offers an introduction to noncooperative game theory. The course is intended both for graduate students who wish to develop a solid background in game theory in order to pursue research in the applied fields of economics and related disciplines, and for students wishing to specialize in economic theory. While the course is designed for graduate students in economics, it is open to all students who have taken and passed 14.121.
14.123 | Microeconomic Theory III (Spring 2015) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-123-microeconomic-theory-iii-spring-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Muhamet Yildiz term:Spring 2015 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers models of individual decision-making under&nbsp;certainty and uncertainty.&nbsp;Applications include risk sharing and financial markets; contracts and information economics; village economies and national development; models with money and credit; trade, spatial economics and differentiated commodities.
14.123 | Microeconomic Theory III (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-123-microeconomic-theory-iii-spring-2005 | textbook:Kreps, D. A Course in Microeconomic Theory. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University, 1990. textbook:Varian, H. Microeconomic Analysis. 3rd ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 1992. textbook:Mas-Colell, A., M. Whinston, and J. Green. Microeconomic Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Debreu, G. Theory of Value: An Axiomatic Analysis of Economic Equilibrium. New York, NY: Wiley, 1959, pp. 98-102. Reprinted in Uncertainty in Economics: Readings and Exercises. Edited by Peter A. Diamond and Michael Rothschild. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Arrow, K., and F. Hahn. General Competitive Analysis. San Francisco, CA: Holden-Day, 1971. textbook:Mas-Colell, A. The Theory of General Economic Equilibrium: A Differentiable Approach. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1985. textbook:Hildenbrand, W., and A. Kirman. Equilibrium Analysis: Variations on themes by Edgeworth and Walras. New York, NY: Elsevier, 1988, chapter 1. textbook:Sen, A. "Social Choice." In The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics. Edited by John Eatwell, Murray Milgate, and Peter Newman. Vol. 4. London, UK: Macmillan, 1987. textbook:Dasgupta, P., and G. Heal. Chapter 3 in Economic Theory and Exhaustible Resources. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1979. textbook:Laffont, J. J. Fundamentals of Public Economics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, chapter 1. textbook:Debreu, G. "Theory of Value." In Uncertainty in Economics: Readings and Exercises. Edited by Peter A. Diamond and Michael Rothschild. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Dasgupta, P., and G. Heal. Economic Theory and Exhaustible Resources. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1979, chapters 4 and 6. textbook:Hirshleifer, J., and J. G. Riley. The Analytics of Uncertainty and Information. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:———. "The Role of a Stock Market in a General Equilibrium Model with Technological Uncertainty." American Economic Review 57, no. 4 (September 1967): 759-776. Reprinted in Uncertainty in Economics: Readings and Exercises. Edited by Peter A. Diamond and Michael Rothschild. Rev. ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Hirshleifer, J. "The Private and Social Value of Information and the Reward to Inventive Activity." American Economic Review 61, no. 4. (September 1971): 561-574. Reprinted in Uncertainty in Economics: Readings and Exercises. Edited by Peter A. Diamond and Michael Rothschild. Rev. ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1989. level:Graduate instructors:Peter Diamond term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The central topic of this course is the theory of general equilibrium and its applications and extensions.
14.124 | Microeconomic Theory IV | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-124-microeconomic-theory-iv-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Bengt Holmstrom term:Spring 2003 features: description:The topic of the class is information economics. The purpose is to give an introduction to some of the main subjects in this field: risk sharing, moral hazard, adverse selection (signaling, screening), mechanism design, decision making under uncertainty. These subjects (and others) will be treated in more depth in the advanced theory courses on Contract Theory.
14.126 | Game Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-126-game-theory-spring-2010 | textbook:[FT]=  Fudenberg, Drew, and Jean Tirole. Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1991. textbook:[OR]=  Osborne, Martin, and Ariel Rubinstein. A Course in Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1994. textbook:[MS]=  Mailath, George J., and Larry Samuelson. Repeated Games and Reputations. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2006. textbook:[W]=  Weibull, Jorgen. Evolutionary Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:[FL]=  Fudenberg, Drew, and David Levine. The Theory of Learning in Games. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998. textbook:Topkis, D. M. Supermodularity and Complementarity. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1998. textbook:Morris, S., and H. S. Shin. "Global Games: Theory and Applications." In Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications, Eighth World Congress, Volume I. Edited by M. Dewatripont, L. Hansen, and S. Turnovsky. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Mihai Manea,  Muhamet Yildiz term:Spring 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course is a rigorous investigation of the evolutionary and epistemic foundations of solution concepts, such as rationalizability and Nash equilibrium. It covers classical topics, such as repeated games, bargaining, and supermodular games as well as new topics such as global games, heterogeneous priors, psychological games, and games without expected utility maximization. Applications are provided when available.
14.127 | Behavioral Economics and Finance | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-127-behavioral-economics-and-finance-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Xavier Gabaix term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course surveys research which incorporates psychological evidence into economics. Topics include: prospect theory, biases in probabilistic judgment, self-control and mental accounting with implications for consumption and savings, fairness, altruism, and public goods contributions, financial market anomalies and theories, impact of markets, learning, and incentives, and memory, attention, categorization, and the thinking process.
14.128 | Dynamic Optimization & Economic Applications (Recursive Methods) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-128-dynamic-optimization-economic-applications-recursive-methods-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Iván Werning term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:The unifying theme of this course is best captured by the title of our main reference book: "Recursive Methods in Economic Dynamics". We start by covering deterministic and stochastic dynamic optimization using dynamic programming analysis. We then study the properties of the resulting dynamic systems. Finally, we will go over a recursive method for repeated games that has proven useful in contract theory and macroeconomics. We shall stress applications and examples of all these techniques throughout the course.
14.129 | Advanced Contract Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-129-advanced-contract-theory-spring-2005 | textbook:Bolton, Patrick, and Mathias Dewatripont. Contract Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2005. textbook:Mas-Colell, Andreu, Michael D. Whinston, and Jerry R. Green. Microeconomic Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Fudenberg, Drew, and Jean Tirole. Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1991. textbook:Krishna, Vijay. Auction Theory. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2002. textbook:Hart, Oliver D. Firms, Contracts, and Financial Structure. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Laffont, Jean-Jacques, and Jean Tirole. A Theory of Incentives in Procurement and Regulation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1993. textbook:Salanié, Bernard. The Economics of Contracts: A Primer. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Sergei Izmalkov term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course focuses on recent developments in contract theory. Topics include: advanced models of moral hazard, adverse selection, mechanism design and incomplete contracts with applications to theory of the firm, organizational design, and financial structure.
14.147 | Topics in Game Theory (Fall 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-147-topics-in-game-theory-fall-2009 | textbook:[Milgrom] =  Milgrom, Paul. Putting Auction Theory to Work. Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:[Roth and Sotomayor] =  Roth, Alvin, and Marilda Sotomayor. Two-Sided Matching: A Study in Game-Theoretic Modeling and Analysis. Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Klemperer, Paul. Auctions: Theory and Practice. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2004. textbook:Krishna, Vijay. Auction Theory. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2009. textbook:Moulin, Hervé. Axioms of Cooperative Decision Making. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1991. textbook:Shiller, Robert. Macro Markets: Creating Institutions for Managing Society's Largest Economic Risks. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Elster, Jon. Local Justice: How Institutions Allocate Scarce Goods and Necessary Burdens. New York, NY: Russell Sage Foundation, 1993. textbook:Klemperer, Paul. "Why Every Economist Should Learn Some Auction Theory." Chapter 2 in Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Practice, Eighth World Congress. Vol. 1. Edited by Mathias Dewatripont, Lars Peter Hansen, and Stephen J. Turnovsky. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2003, pp. 25-55. textbook:Ausubel, Lawrence, and Paul Milgrom. "The Lovely but Lonely Vickrey Auction." Chapter 1 in Combinatorial Auctions. Edited by Peter Cramton, Yoav Shoham, Richard Steinberg, and Vernon L. Smith. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2010, pp. 17-40. textbook:Fudenberg, Drew, and Jean Tirole. "Bayesian Games and Mechanism Design." Chapter 7 in Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1991, pp. 243-318. textbook:Moulin, Hervé. "Core and Competitive Equilibrium: Multiple Goods." Chapter 3 in Cooperative Microeconomics: A Game-Theoretic Introduction. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1995, pp. 103-162. textbook:Krishna, Vijay. Auction Theory. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2009. textbook:———. "Nonparametric Approaches to Auctions." Chapter 60 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 6A. Edited by James J. Heckman and Edward Leamer. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 2005, pp. 3847-3965. textbook:Segal, Ilya. "Communication in Economic Mechanisms." Chapter 6 in Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications, Ninth World Congress. Vol. 1. Edited by Richard Blundell, Whitney K. Newey, and Torsten Persson. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2006, pp. 222-268. level:Graduate instructors:Parag Pathak term:Fall 2009 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is an advanced topics course on market and mechanism design. We will study existing or new market institutions, understand their properties, and think about whether they can be re-engineered or improved. Topics discussed include mechanism design, auction theory, one-sided matching in house allocation, two-sided matching, stochastic matching mechanisms, student assignment, and school choice.
14.147 | Topics in Game Theory (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-147-topics-in-game-theory-spring-2005 | textbook:Binmore, Ken. "Perfect Equilibria in Bargaining Models." In The Economics of Bargaining. Edited by K. Binmore and P. Dasgupta. Oxford, UK: Basil Blackwell, 1987, pp. 77-105. textbook:———. "Global Games - Theory and Applications." In Advances in Economics and Econometrics. Edited by M. Dewatripont, L. Hansen, and S. Turnovsky. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2003, 56-114. level:Graduate instructors:Muhamet Yildiz term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course/workshop aims to provide an invigorating intellectual environment for graduate students and junior faculty who are interested in economic theory. We will discuss research ideas and explore topics in game theory and more broadly in economic theory.
14.271 | Industrial Organization I (Fall 2013) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-271-industrial-organization-i-fall-2013 | textbook:[Tirole] =   Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. MIT Press, 1988. textbook:Ellison, Glenn. "Bounded Rationality in Industrial Organization." Chapter 5 in Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications, Ninth World Congress. Vol. 2. Edited by Richard Blundell, Whitney K. Newey, and Torsten Persson. Cambridge University Press, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Glenn Ellison term:Fall 2013 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), This Course at MIT description:The course provides a graduate level introduction to Industrial Organization. It is designed to provide a broad introduction to topics and industries that current researchers are studying as well as to expose students to a wide variety of techniques. It will start the process of preparing economics PhD students to conduct thesis research in the area, and may also be of interest to doctoral students working in other areas of economics and related fields. The course integrates theoretical models and empirical studies.
14.271 | Industrial Organization I (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-271-industrial-organization-i-fall-2005 | textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988. textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, chapter 1 (including supplementary section). textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, sections 3.0-3.5. textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, section 2.1 and chapter 5. textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, chapter 6. textbook:Bresnahan, T. "Empirical Studies of Industries with Market Power." In Handbook of Industrial Organization. Vol. 1. Edited by R. Schmalensee and R. Willig. New York, NY: North Holland, 1989. textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, sections 7.1-7.2. textbook:———. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, chapter 8, pp. 207-8. textbook:———. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, sections 9.0-9.7. textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Industrial Organization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988, sections 10.1-10.5 and 8.1.3. level:Graduate instructors:Glenn Ellison,  Stephen Ryan term:Fall 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The course provides a graduate level introduction to Industrial Organization. It is designed to provide a broad introduction to topics and industries that current researchers are studying as well as to expose students to a wide variety of techniques. The course integrates theoretical models and empirical studies.
14.282 | Organizational Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-282-organizational-economics-spring-2009 | textbook:Hart, Oliver. Firms, Contracts, and Financial Structure. Oxford, United Kingdom: Clarendon Press, 1995, chapter 2. textbook:Williamson, Oliver. Markets and Hierarchies: Analysis and Antitrust Implications. New York, NY: Free Press, 1983. textbook:Marschak, Jacob, and Roy Radner. Economic Theory of Teams. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1972. textbook:March, James, and Herbert Simon. Organizations. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1958. textbook:Cyert, Richard, and James March. A Behavioral Theory of the Firm. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Blackwell, 1992. textbook:Pfeffer, Jeffrey. "Sources of Power in Organizations." Chapter 4 in Power in Organizations. Marshfield, MA: Pitman, 1981. textbook:*Kreps, David. "Corporate Culture and Economic Theory." In Perspectives on Positive Political Economy. Edited by J. Alt and K. Shepsle. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1990. textbook:*Colin, Camerer, and Roberto Weber. "Growing Organizational Culture in the Laboratory." Chapter 96 in Handbook of Experimental Economics Results. Vol. 1. Edited by Charles R. Plott and Vernon L. Smith. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier, 2008. textbook:O'Reilly, Charles, and Jennifer Chatman. "Culture as Social Control: Corporations, Cults, and Commitment." In Research in Organizational Behavior: An Annual Series of Analytical Essays and Critical Reviews. Vol. 18. Edited by B. Staw and L. Cummings. New York, NY: Elsevier, 1999, pp. 157-200. textbook:Chandler, Alfred. Strategy and Structure. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1969. Reprinted with new introduction by the author. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1969. level:Graduate instructors:George Baker,  Robert Gibbons term:Spring 2009 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course in organizational economics prepares doctoral students for further study in the field. The course introduces the classic papers and some recent research. The material is organized into the following modules: boundaries of the firm, employment in organizations, decision-making in organizations, and structures and processes in organizations. Each class session covers a few leading papers.This course was joint-taught between faculty of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University. The Harvard course is Economics 2670 Organizational Economics.
14.296J | Collective Choice I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/political-science/17-812j-collective-choice-i-fall-2008 | textbook:Persson, Torsten, and Guido Tabellini. Political Economics: Explaining Economic Policy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002. textbook:Austen-Smith, David, and Jeffrey S. Banks. Positive Political Theory I: Collective Preference. Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Press, 2000, textbook:Buchanan, James M., and Gordon Tullock. The Calculus of Consent: Logical Foundations of Constitutional Democracy. Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Press, 1962. textbook:Grossman, Gene M., and Elhanan Helpman. Special Interest Politics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002. textbook:Mueller, Dennis C. Public Choice II. Rev. ed. Cambridge, UK: University of Cambridge Press, 1989. textbook:*Downs, Anthony. An Economic Theory of Democracy. New York, NY: Addison-Wesley, 1997. textbook:Black, Duncan. The Theory of Committees and Elections. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1986. textbook:*Fearon, James. "Electoral Accountability and the Control of Politicians: Selecting Good Types Versus Sanctioning Poor Performance." In Democracy, Accountability, and Representation. Edited by A. Przeworski, Susan C. Stokes, and Bernard Manin. Cambridge, UK; New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1999, chapter 2. textbook:Aldrich, John H. Why Parties?: The Origin and Transformation of Political Parties in America. Chicago, IL: The University of Chicago Press, 1995, chapters 1 and 7. level:Graduate instructors:James Snyder term:Fall 2008 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This is an applied theory course covering topics in the political economy of democratic countries. This course examines political institutions from a rational choice perspective. The now burgeoning rational choice literature on legislatures, bureaucracies, courts, and elections constitutes the chief focus. Some focus will be placed on institutions from a comparative and/or international perspective.
14.381 | Statistical Method in Economics (Fall 2013) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-381-statistical-method-in-economics-fall-2013 | textbook:The text, which will be followed closely, is [SI] =  Casella, George, and Roger L. Berger. Statistical Inference. Cengage Learning, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Anna Mikusheva term:Fall 2013 features:This Course at MIT description:This course is divided into two sections, Part I and Part II. &nbsp;Part I, found here,&nbsp;provides an introduction to statistical theory. A brief review of probability will be given mainly as background material, however, it is assumed to be known. Topics include normal distribution, limit theorems, Bayesian concepts, and testing, among others.&nbsp;Part II prepares students for the remainder of the econometrics sequence and and can be found by visiting 14.381 Fall 2006.&nbsp; &nbsp;
14.381 | Statistical Method in Economics (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-381-statistical-method-in-economics-fall-2006 | textbook:Casella, George, and Roger Berger. Statistical Inference . 2nd ed. Pacific Grove, CA: Thomson Learning, 2002. textbook:Greene, William. Econometric Analysis. 5th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2003. textbook:Varian, H. "Econometrics." Chapter 12 in Microeconomic Analysis. 3rd ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton and Company, 1992, pp. 198-214. textbook:Judd, K. "Approximation Methods." Chapter 6 in Numerical Methods in Economics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998, pp. 195-249. level:Graduate instructors:Victor Chernozhukov term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:﻿This course is divided into two sections, Part I and Part II. &nbsp;Part I provides an introduction to statistical theory and can be found by visiting 14.381 Fall 2013.&nbsp;Part II, found here, prepares students for the remainder of the econometrics sequence. The emphasis of the course is to understand the basic principles of statistical theory. A brief review of probability will be given; however, this material is assumed knowledge. The course also covers basic regression analysis. Topics covered include probability, random samples, asymptotic methods, point estimation, evaluation of estimators, Cramer-Rao theorem, hypothesis tests, Neyman Pearson lemma, Likelihood Ratio test, interval estimation, best linear predictor, best linear approximation, conditional expectation function, building functional forms, regression algebra, Gauss-Markov optimality, finite-sample inference, consistency, asymptotic normality, heteroscedasticity, and autocorrelation.&nbsp;&nbsp;
14.382 | Econometrics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-382-econometrics-i-spring-2005 | textbook:Wooldridge, J. M. Econometric Analysis of Cross Section and Panel Data. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Greene, W. H. Econometric Analysis. 5th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1999, 2002. textbook:Ruud, P. An Introduction to Classical Econometric Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Hayashi, F. Econometrics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2000. textbook:Peracchi, F. Econometrics. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, Ltd., 2001. textbook:Amemiya, T. Advanced Econometrics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1985. textbook:Mood, Alexander M., and Franklin A Graybill. Introduction to the Theory of Statistics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1974. textbook:Rao, C. R. Linear Statistics Inference (Advanced Statistics of Linear Models). 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2002. textbook:Griliches, Z., and Intriligator, M. Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 1-3. Amsterdam, Holland; New York, NY: North-Holland, 1983. textbook:Berndt, E. R. The Practice of Econometrics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1991. textbook:Goldberger, A. A Course in Econometrics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1991. level:Graduate instructors:Jerry Hausman,  Victor Chernozhukov term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course focuses on the specification and estimation of the linear regression model. The course departs from the standard Gauss-Markov assumptions to include heteroskedasticity, serial correlation, and errors in variables. Advanced topics include generalized least squares, instrumental variables, nonlinear regression, and limited dependent variable models. Economic applications are discussed throughout the course.
14.384 | Time Series Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-384-time-series-analysis-fall-2013 | textbook:[Hamilton] =  Hamilton, James D. Time Series Analysis. Princeton University Press, 1994. textbook:[Brockwell and Davis] =  Brockwell, Peter, and Richard Davis. Time Series: Theory and Methods. Springer-Verlag, 1991. textbook:[Canova] =  Canova, Fabio. Methods for Applied Macroeconomic Research. Princeton University Press, 2007. textbook:[DeJong and Dave] =  DeJong, David, and Chetan Dave. Structural Macroeconometrics. Princeton University Press, 2011. textbook:[Hall and Heyde] =  Hall, Peter, and C. C. Heyde. Martingale Limit Theory and Its Application (Probability and Mathematical Statistics). Academic Press, 1980. textbook:[Griliches and Intriligator] =  Griliches, Zvi, and Michael Intriligator, eds. Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 3. North Holland, 1986. textbook:[Lütkepohl] =  Lütkepohl, Helmut. Introduction to Multiple Time Series Analysis. Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:den Haan, W. J., and A. Levin. "A Practitioner's Guide to Robust Covariance Matrix Estimation." Chapter 12 in Handbook of Statistics. Vol. 26. Edited by G. S. Maddala, and C. R. Rao. North Holland, 2006, pp. 291–341. textbook:Watson, M. "Vector Autoregressions and Cointegration." Chapter 47 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. North Holland, 1999. textbook:*Stock, J. H. "Unit Roots and Trend Breaks in Econometrics." Sections 1–4 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. North Holland, 1999, pp. 2740–841. textbook:*Watson, M. W. "Vector Autoregressions and Cointegration." Sections 1, and 2 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. North Holland, 1999, pp. 2844–915. textbook:*———. "Cointegration." In The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics. 2nd ed. Edited by Steven N. Durlauf, and Lawrence E. Blume. Palgrave Macmillan, 2008. textbook:Andrews, D. W. K., and J. H. Stock. "Inference with Weak Instruments." In Advances in Economics and Econometrics, Theory and Applications: Ninth World Congress of the Econometric Society. Vol. 3. Edited by R. Blundell, W. K. Newey, and T. Person. Cambridge University Press, 2007. textbook:Hansen, and Sargent. Recursive Linear Models of Dynamic Economies. Princeton University Press, 2013. textbook:*Chib, S. "Markov Chain Monte Carlo Methods: Computation and Inference." Chapter 5 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 5. Edited by J. J. Heckman, and E. Leamer. North Holland, 2001, pp. 3564–634. level:Graduate instructors:Anna Mikusheva term:Fall 2013 features:Lecture notes, This Course at MIT description:The course provides a survey of the theory and application of time series methods in econometrics. Topics covered will include univariate stationary and non-stationary models, vector autoregressions, frequency domain methods, models for estimation and inference in persistent time series, and structural breaks. We will cover different methods of estimation and inferences of modern dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models (DSGE): simulated method of moments, Maximum likelihood and Bayesian approach. The empirical applications in the course will be drawn primarily from macroeconomics.
14.385 | Nonlinear Econometric Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-385-nonlinear-econometric-analysis-fall-2007 | textbook:Cameron, Adrian Colin, and Pravin K. Trivedi. Microeconometrics: Methods and Applications. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Wooldridge, Jeffrey M. Econometric Analysis of Cross Section and Panel Data. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2008. textbook:Newey, Whitney K., and Daniel McFadden. "Large Sample Estimation and Hypothesis Testing." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by Daniel McFadden and Robert Engle. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier, North-Holland, 1999, chapter 36, pp. 2113-2245. textbook:Amemiya, Takeshi. Advanced Econometrics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1985. textbook:van der Vaart, A. W. Asymptotic Statistics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Grilliches, Zvi, and Michael D. Intriligator. Handbook of Econometrics. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1994. textbook:Grilliches, Zvi. Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 1. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1983. textbook:Grilliches, Zvi, and Michael D. Intriligator. Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 2. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1984. textbook:———. Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 3. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1986. textbook:McFadden, Daniel, and Robert Engle. Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1999. textbook:Heckman, James J., and Edward E. Leamer. Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 5. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 2001. textbook:Ruud, Paul A. An Introduction to Classical Econometric Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Hayashi, Fumio. Econometrics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2000. textbook:Text: Wooldridge, Jeffrey M. Econometric Analysis of Cross Section and Panel Data. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2008. textbook:Ruud, Paul A. An Introduction to Classical Econometric Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Grilliches, Zvi, and Michael D. Intriligator. Handbook of Econometrics. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1994. textbook:Andrews, Donald W. K. "Empirical Process Methods in Econometrics." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by Daniel McFadden and Robert Engle. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1999, chapter 37, pp. 2247-2294. textbook:Horowitz, Joel L. "The Bootstrap." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 5. Edited by James J. Heckman and Edward E. Leamer. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 2001, chapter 52, pp. 3159-3228. textbook:*Newey, Whitney K., and Daniel McFadden. "Large Sample Estimation and Hypothesis Testing." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by Daniel McFadden and Robert Engle. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier, North-Holland, 1999, chapter 36, pp. 2113-2245. textbook:*Andrews, D. W. K., and J. H. Stock. "Inference with Weak Instruments." In Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications, Ninth World Congress. Vol. 3. Edited by Richard Blundell, Whitney K. Newey, and Torsten Persson. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2007. textbook:*Hardle, W., and O. Linton. "Applied Nonparametric Methods." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by Daniel McFadden and Robert Engle. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1999, chapter 38, pp. 2296-2239. textbook:Powell, James. "Estimation of Semiparametric Models." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by Daniel McFadden and Robert Engle. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1999, chapter 41, pp. 2443-2521. textbook:Newey, Whitney K., and Daniel McFadden. "Large Sample Estimation and Hypothesis Testing." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by Daniel McFadden and Robert Engle. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier, North-Holland, 1999, chapter 36, pp. 2113-2245. textbook:Chamberlain, Gary. "Panel Data." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 2. Edited by Zvi Grilliches and Michael D. Intriligator. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 1984, chapter 22, pp. 1247-1318. textbook:Arellano, Manuel, and Bo Honoré. "Panel Data Models: Some Recent Developments." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 5. Edited by James J. Heckman and Edward E. Leamer. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 2001, chapter 53, pp. 3229-3296. textbook:Ackerberg, Daniel, C. Lanier Benkard, Steven Berry, and Ariel Pakes. "Econometric Tools for Analyzing Market Outcomes." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 6. Part 1. Edited by James J. Heckman and Edward E. Leamer. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland Publishing Co., 2005, chapter 63, pp. 4171-4276. level:Graduate instructors:Victor Chernozhukov,  Whitney Newey term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course presents micro-econometric models, including large sample theory for estimation and hypothesis testing, generalized method of moments (GMM), estimation of censored and truncated specifications, quantile regression, structural estimation, nonparametric and semiparametric estimation, treatment effects, panel data, bootstrapping, simulation methods, and Bayesian methods. The methods are illustrated with economic applications.
14.386 | New Econometric Methods | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-386-new-econometric-methods-spring-2007 | textbook:Newey, W. K., and D. L. McFadden. "Large Sample Estimation and Hypothesis Testing." In Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by R. F. Engle and D. McFadden. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1999, pp. 2113-2245. textbook:Härdle, W., and O. Linton. "Applied Nonparametric Methods." Chapter 38 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by R. F. Engle and D. McFadden. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1994, pp. 2297-2339. textbook:Powell, J. "Estimation of Semiparametric Models." Chapter 41 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 4. Edited by R. F. Engle and D. McFadden. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1994, pp. 2444-2521. textbook:Chamberlain, G. "Panel Data." Chapter 22 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 2. Edited by Z. Griliches and M. D. Intriligator. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1984, pp. 1248-1318. textbook:Arellano, M., and B. Honoré. "Panel Data Models: Some Recent Developments." Chapter 53 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 5. Edited by J. J. Heckman and E. Leamer. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 2001, pp. 3231-3296. level:Graduate instructors:Whitney Newey term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course focuses on recent developments in econometrics, especially structural estimation. The topics include nonseparable models, models of imperfect competition, auction models, duration models, and nonlinear panel data. Results are illustrated with economic applications.
14.387 | Applied Econometrics: Mostly Harmless Big Data | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-387-applied-econometrics-mostly-harmless-big-data-fall-2014 | textbook:[MHE] =  Angrist, J. D., and J. S. Pischke. Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton University Press, 2009. textbook:Card., D. "The Causal Effect of Education on Earnings." Chapter 30 in The Handbook of Labor Economics: Volume 3A. North Holland, 1999. textbook:Angrist, J., and I. Fernandez-val. "ExtrapoLATE-ing: External Validity and Overidentification in the LATE Framework." In Advances in Econometrics Theory and Applications, Tenth World Congress. Vol. III. Cambridge University Press, 2013. textbook:Chamberlain, G. "Panel Data." Chapter 22 in Handbook of Econometrics. Vol. 2. North-holland, 1987. level:Graduate instructors:Joshua Angrist,  Victor Chernozhukov term:Fall 2014 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course covers empirical strategies for applied micro research questions. Our agenda includes regression and matching, instrumental variables, differences-in-differences, regression discontinuity designs, standard errors, and a module consisting of 8&ndash;9 lectures on the analysis of high-dimensional data sets a.k.a. &quot;Big Data&quot;.
14.420 | Environmental Policy and Economics (Spring 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-42-environmental-policy-and-economics-spring-2011 | textbook:[Kolstad] =  Kolstad, Charles. Environmental Economics. 2nd ed. Oxford University Press, 2010. textbook:[EESR] =  Stavins, Rober, ed. Economics of the Environment: Selected Readings. 4th ed. W. W. Norton Co., 2000. textbook:[RFF] =  Oates, Wallace, ed. The RFF Reader in Environmental and Resource Management. Resources for the Future, 1999. textbook:Portney, Paul R., and Robert N. Stavins, eds. "Introduction." Chapter 1 in Public Policies for Environmental Protection. 2nd ed. Resources for the Future, 2000. textbook:Portney, Paul R. "EPA and the Evolution of Federal Regulation." Chapter 2 in Public Policies for Environmental Protection. Edited by Paul Portney and Robert Stavins. 2nd ed. Resources for the Future, 2000. textbook:Revesz, Richard, and Michael Livermore. Retaking Rationality: How Cost Benefit Analysis Can Better Protect the Environment and Our Health. Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Ackerman, Frank, and Lisa Heinzerling. Priceless: On Knowing the Price of Everything and the Value of Nothing. The New Press, 2005. (Read chapters 1, 2, and 9) textbook:Jaffe, Adam B., Richard G. Newell, and Robert N. Stavins. "Technology Policy for Energy and the Environment." In Innovation Policy and the Economy. Vol. 4. Edited by Adam B. Jaffe, Josh Lerner, and Scott Stern. MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Braden, John B., Charles D. Kolstad, and David Miltz. 1998. "Introduction." Chapter 1 in Measuring the Demand for Environmental Quality. Edited by John B. Braden and Charles D. Kolstad. Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 1998. textbook:Freeman III., A Myrick. "Property Value Models." Chapter 11 in The Measurement of Environmental and Resource Values. RFF Press, 1993. textbook:Johanneson, Magnus, Per-Olov Johansson, Bengt Kristom, and Tore Soderqvist. "Valuing Changes in Health: Theoretical and Empirical Issues." In Current Issues in Environmental Economics. Edited by Per-Olov Johansson, Bengt Kristom, and Karl-Goran Maler. Manchester University Press, 1995. textbook:Smith, V. Kerry. "Household Production Functions and Environmental Benefit Estimation." Chapter 3 in Measuring the Demand for Environmental Quality. Edited by John B. Braden and Charles D. Kolstad. Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 1998. textbook:Sweeney, James. "Economic Theory of Depletable Resources: An Introduction." Chapter 17 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. III. Edited by Allen V. Kneese and James L. Sweeney. Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:Heal, Geoffrey. "The Optimal Use of Exhaustible Resources." Chapter 18 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. III. Edited by Allen V. Kneese and James L. Sweeney. Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:Munro, Gordon, and Anthony Scott. "The Economics of Fisheries Management." Chapter 14 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. III. Edited by Allen V. Kneese and James L. Sweeney. Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Hunt Allcott term:Spring 2011 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course explores the proper role of government in the regulation of the environment. It will help students develop the tools to estimate the costs and benefits of environmental regulations. These tools will be used to evaluate a series of current policy questions, including: Should air and water pollution regulations be tightened or loosened? What are the costs of climate change in the U.S. and abroad? Is there a &quot;Race to the Bottom&quot; in environmental regulation? What is &quot;sustainable development&quot;? How do environmental problems differ in developing countries? Are we running out of oil and other natural resources? Should we be more energy efficient?  To gain real world experience, the course is scheduled to include a visit to the MIT cogeneration plant. We will also do an in-class simulation of an air pollution emissions market.
14.444 | Energy Economics (Spring 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-44-energy-economics-spring-2007 | textbook:Pindyck, R., and D. Rubinfeld. Microeconomics. 6th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2005. textbook:*** Slade, M., C. Kolstad, and R. Weiner. "Buying Energy and Nonfuel Minerals." Chapter 20 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. 3. Edited by A. Kneese and J. Sweeney. San Diego, CA: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:** Heal, G. "The Optimal Use of Exhaustible Resources." Chapter 18 in Handbook of Natural Resource and Energy Economics. Vol. 3. Edited by A. Kneese and J. Sweeney. San Diego, CA: Elsevier Science Publishers, 1993. textbook:* Deffeyes, K. Hubbert's Peak: The Impending World of Oil Shortage. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2001, chapter 1. level:Undergraduate instructors:Paul Joskow term:Spring 2007 features:Images on Flickr description:This course explores the theoretical and empirical perspectives on individual and industrial demand for energy, energy supply, energy markets, and public policies affecting energy markets. It discusses aspects of the oil, natural gas, electricity, and nuclear power sectors and examines energy tax, price regulation, deregulation, energy efficiency and policies for controlling emission.
14.451 | Dynamic Optimization Methods with Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-451-dynamic-optimization-methods-with-applications-fall-2009 | textbook:[SLP] =  Stokey, Nancy L., and Robert E. Lucas, Jr., with Edward C. Prescott. Recursive Methods in Economic Dynamics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1989. textbook:[Acemoglu] =  Acemoglu, Daron. Introduction to Modern Economic Growth. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Chiang, Alpha C. Elements of Dynamic Optimization. Long Grove, IL: Waveland Press, 1999. textbook:Luenberger, David. Optimization by Vector Space Methods. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1997. textbook:Kamien, Morton I., and Nancy L. Schwartz. Dynamic Optimization: The Calculus of Variations and Optimal Control in Economics and Management. 2nd ed. San Diego, CA: Elsevier, 1991. level:Graduate instructors:Guido Lorenzoni term:Fall 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course focuses on dynamic optimization methods, both in discrete and in continuous time. We approach these problems from a dynamic programming and optimal control perspective. We also study the dynamic systems that come from the solutions to these problems. The course will illustrate how these techniques are useful in various applications, drawing on many economic examples. However, the focus will remain on gaining a general command of the tools so that they can be applied later in other classes.
14.451 | Macroeconomic Theory I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-451-macroeconomic-theory-i-spring-2007 | textbook:Barro, R. J., and X. Sala-i-Martin. Economic Growth. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1995. textbook:Barro, R. Determinants of Economic Growth: A Cross-Country Empirical Study. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1997. textbook:Klenow, P., and A. Rodríguez-Clare. "The Neoclassical Revival in Growth Economics: Has It Gone Too Far?" Chapter 2 in NBER Macroeconomics Annual 1997. Edited by Ben S. Bernanke and Julio Rotemberg. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1997. textbook:———. Growth Theory: An Exposition. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Blanchard, O., and S. Fischer. Lectures on Macroeconomics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. chapter 3. textbook:Blanchard, O., and S. Fischer. Lectures on Macroeconomics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989, chapter 3, sections 5.1-5.2, sections 10.1, and 11.3. textbook:Aghion, P., P. Howitt, M. Brant-Collett, and C. Garcia-Peñalosa. Endogenous Growth Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998, chapter 10. textbook:Caballero, R., and A. Jaffe. "How High Are the Giants Shoulders?" In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 1993. Edited by Olivier Blanchard and Stanley Fischer. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1993. textbook:Aghion, P., P. Howitt, M. Brant-Collett, and C. Garcia-Peñalosa. Endogenous Growth Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998, chapters 1-3. level:Graduate instructors:George-Marios Angeletos term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Images on Flickr description:Introduction to the theories of economic growth. Topics will include basic facts of economic growth and long-run economic development; brief overview of optimal control theory and dynamic programming; basic neoclassical growth model under a variety of market structures; human capital and economic growth; endogenous growth models; models with endogenous technology; models of directed technical change; competition, market structure and growth; financial and economic development; international trade and economic growth; institutions and economic development. This is a half-term subject. The class size is limited.
14.452 | Economic Growth | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-452-economic-growth-fall-2009 | textbook:[IMEG] =  Acemoglu, Daron. Introduction to Modern Economic Growth. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Helpman, Elhanan. Mystery of Economic Growth. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2004. textbook:Solow, Robert. Growth Theory: An Exposition. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Solow, Robert. Growth Theory: An Exposition. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Barro, Robert, and Xavier Sala-i-Martin. Economic Growth. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003, chapter 10. textbook:Klenow, Peter J., and Andres Rodriguez-Clare. "The Neoclassical Revival in Growth Economics: Has It Gone Too Far?" In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 1997. Edited by Ben S. Bernanke and Julio J. Rotemberg. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1997, pp. 73-103. textbook:Diamond, Jared M. Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fate of Human Societies. New York, NY: W.W. Norton and Co., 2005. textbook:Mas-Colell, Andreu, Michael D. Whinston, and Jerry R. Green. Microeconomic Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995, chapters 4 and 16. textbook:Bewley, Truman F. General Equilibrium, Overlapping Generations Models, and Optimal Growth Theory. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2007. textbook:Jones, Larry. "Special Problems Arising in the Study of Economics with Infinitely Many Commodities." In Models of Economic Dynamics. Edited by Hugo Sonnenschein. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1986, pp. 184-205. textbook:Acemoglu, Daron, and Joshua Angrist. "How Large are Human Capital Externalities? Evidence from Compulsory Schooling Laws." In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2000. Edited by Ben S. Bernanke and Kenneth S. Rogoff. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001, pp. 9-59. textbook:Grossman, Gene, and Elhanan Helpman. Innovation and Growth in the Global Economy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1993. textbook:Ljunqvist, Lars, and Thomas J. Sargent. "Equilibrium with Complete Markets," and "Recursive Competitive Equilibria." Chapters 8 and 12 in Recursive Macroeconomic Theory. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004, pp. 208-263 and 366-391. textbook:———. "The Optimum Quantity of Money." In Models of Monetary Economics. Edited by J. H. Kareken and N. Wallace. Minneapolis, MN: Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 1980, pp. 169-210. textbook:Ljunqvist, Lars, and Thomas J. Sargent. "Self-insurance," and "Incomplete Markets Models." Chapters 16 and 17 in Recursive Macroeconomic Theory. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004, pp. 545-614. level:Graduate instructors:Daron Acemoglu term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This half semester class presents an introduction to macroeconomic modeling, focusing on the theory of economic growth and some of its applications. It will introduce a number of models of non-stochastic and stochastic macroeconomic equilibrium. It will use these models to shed light both on the process of economic growth at the world level and on sources of income and growth differences across countries.
14.452 | Macroeconomic Theory II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-452-macroeconomic-theory-ii-spring-2007 | textbook:[BF] Blanchard, O., and S. Fischer. Lectures on Macroeconomics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:[OR] Obstfeld, M., and K. Rogoff. Foundations of International Macroeconomics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:[MW] Woodford, M. Interest and Prices: Foundations of a Theory of Monetary Policy. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2003. textbook:Stock, J., and M. Watson. "Business Cycle Fluctuations in U.S. Macroeconomic Time Series." Chapter 1 in Handbook of Macroeconomics. Vol 1A. Edited by J. Taylor and M. Woodford. New York, NY: Elsevier, 1999. textbook:Christiano, L., M. Eichenbaum, and C. Evans. "Monetary Policy Shocks: What have we Learned and to What End?" Handbook of Macroeconomics. Vol. 1A. Edited by J. Taylor and M. Woodford. New York, NY: Elsevier, 1999, pp. 65-148. textbook:King, R., and S. Rebelo. "Resuscitating Real Business Cycles." Chapter 14 in Handbook of Macroeconomics. Vol. 1B. Edited by J. Taylor and M. Woodford. New York, NY: Elsevier, 1999, pp. 927-1007. textbook:Gali, J., and P. Rabanal. "Technology Shocks and Aggregate Fluctuations: How Well does the RBC Model Fit Postwar U.S. Data?" In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2004. Edited by M. Gertler and K. Rogoff. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, pp. 225-318. textbook:Aghion, P., and P. Howitt. "Growth and Cycles." Chapter 8 in Endogenous Growth Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998. textbook:Shiller, R. Irrational Exuberance. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2000. textbook:Obstfeld, M., and K. Rogoff. "The Intertemporal Approach to the Current Account." Chapter 34 in Handbook of International Economics. Vol. 3. Edited by G. Grossman and K. Rogoff. New York, NY: Elsevier, 1997, pp. 1731-1799. textbook:Blanchard, O. "Why Does Money Affect Output? A Survey." In Handbook of Monetary Economics. Vol 2. Edited by B. Friedman and F. Hahn. New York, NY: Elsevier, 1990, pp. 779-835. textbook:King, M. "What has Inflation Targeting Achieved?" In The Inflation-Targeting Debate. Edited by B. Bernanke and M. Woodford. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Olivier Blanchard term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This is the second course in the four-quarter graduate sequence in macroeconomics. Its purpose is to introduce the basic models macroeconomists use to study fluctuations. Topics include the basic model or the consumption/saving choice, the RBC model or the labor/leisure choice, non-trivial investment decisions, two-good analysis, money, price setting, the &quot;new Keynesian&quot; model, monetary policy, and fiscal policy.
14.453 | Macroeconomic Theory III | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-453-macroeconomic-theory-iii-fall-2006 | textbook:BF =  Blanchard, Olivier J., and Stanley Fisher. Lectures on Macroeconomics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989, textbook:Deaton =  Deaton, Angus. Understanding Consumption. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1992, textbook:LS =  Ljungqvist, Lars, and Thomas J. Sargent. Recursive Macroeconomic Theory. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004, textbook:Lucas, Robert E., Jr. Models of Business Cycles. Reprint ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 1987, chapter 3. textbook:Stokey, Nancy L., Robert E. Lucas, Jr. and Edward C. Prescott. Recursive Methods in Economic Dynamics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1989, chapter 15. textbook:Harris, Christopher, and David Laibson. "Hyperbolic Discounting and Consumption." Chapter 7 in Advances in Economics and Econometrics. Vol. 1. Edited by M. Dewatripont, L. P. Hansen, and S. J. Turnovsky. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2003. textbook:Attanasio, Orazio P. "Consumption." In Handbook of Macroeconomics. Vol. 1B. Edited by John B. Taylor and Michael Woodford. Amsterdam, Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1998. textbook:Abel, Andrew. "Consumption and Investment." In Handbook of Monetary Economics. Vol. 2. Edited by B. M. Friedman and F. H. Hahn. Amsterdam, Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1990. textbook:Carroll, Christopher, and Lawrence Summers. "Consumption Growth Parallels Income Growth: Some New Evidence." In National Savings and Economic Performance. Edited by Bernheim and Shoven. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press for NBER, 1991. textbook:Townsend, Robert M. The Medieval Village Economy: A Study of the Pareto Mapping in General Equilibrium Models. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993, chapters 4-6. textbook:Abel, Andrew. "Consumption and Investment." In Handbook of Monetary Economics. Vol. 2. Edited by B. M. Freeman and F. H. Hahn. Amsterdam, Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1990. textbook:Dixit, A. K., and R. S. Pindyck. Investment Under Uncertainty. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1994, chapter 2. textbook:Caballero, Ricardo J. "Aggregate Investment." In Handbook of Macroeconomics. Vol. 1B. Edited by John B. Taylor and Michael Woodford. Amsterdam, Netherlands: Elsevier Science, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Iván Werning term:Fall 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions), Images on Flickr description:This course covers issues in the theory of consumption, investment and asset prices. We lay out the basic models first, and then examine the empirical facts that motivate extensions to these models.
14.454 | Economic Crises | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-454-economic-crises-spring-2011 | textbook:Kashyap, Anil, and Jeremy Stein. "Monetary Policy and Bank Lending." NBER Working Paper No. 4317, 1994. Chapter 7 in Monetary Policy. Edited by N. Gregory Mankiw. University of Chicago Press, 1997. textbook:Tirole, Jean. "Consumer Liquidity Demand." Chapter 12 in The Theory of Corporate Finance. Princeton University Press, 2005. textbook:Obstfeld, Maurice, and Kenneth Rogoff. "Imperfections in International Capital Markets." Chapter 6 in Foundations of International Macroeconomics. MIT Press, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Ricardo Caballero term:Spring 2011 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:14.454 is an introduction to current macroeconomic concerns with particular emphasis on medium-run economic fluctuations, economic crises, and the role of asset markets. Topics include the explanation of high chronic unemployment in some nations, the source of modern liquidity crises, the origin and end of speculative bubbles, and the factors that lead to substantial periods of economic stagnation.
14.461 | Advanced Macroeconomics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-461-advanced-macroeconomics-i-fall-2012 | textbook:Woodford, M. "Optimal Monetary Stabilization Policy." (PDF) In Handbook of Monetary Economics, Volume 3B. Edited by B. M. Friedman, and M. Woodford. North Holland, 2010. textbook:———. "Rethinking Multiple Equilibria in Macroeconomics." In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2000. MIT Press, 2001. textbook:———. "Global Games—Theory and Applications." In Advances in Economics and Econometrics, 8th World Congress of the Econometric Society. Edited by M. Dewatripont, L. Hansen, and S. Turnovsky. Cambridge University Press, 2003. textbook:Vives, Xavier. Chapter 3–5 in Information and Learning in Markets: The Impact of Market Microstructure. Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Angeletos, George-Marios, and Jennifer La'O. "Noisy Business Cycles." In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2009. University of Chicago Press Journals, 2010. textbook:Mankiw, N. Gregory, Ricardo Reis, and Justin Wolfers. "Disagreement about Inflation Expectations." In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2003. MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Sims, Christopher. "Rational Inattention and Monetary Economics." In Handbook of Monetary Economics, Volume 3B. North Holland, 2010. level:Graduate instructors:Iván Werning,  George-Marios Angeletos term:Fall 2012 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:14.461 is an advanced course in macroeconomics that seeks to bring students to the research frontier. The course is divided into two sections. The first half is taught by Prof. Iván Werning and covers topics such as how to formulate and solve optimal problems. Students will study fiscal and monetary policy, among other issues. The second half, taught by Prof. George-Marios Angeletos, covers recent work on multiple equilibria, global games, and informational fictions.
14.462 | Advanced Macroeconomics II (Spring 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-462-advanced-macroeconomics-ii-spring-2007 | textbook:Hamilton, James D. Time Series Analysis. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1994, chapters 10 and 11. textbook:Galí, Jordi, and P. Rabanal. "Technology Shocks and Aggregate Fluctuations; How Well Does the RBC Model Fit the Post-war U.S. Data?" (and comments by McGrattan and Ramey). In National Bureau of Economic Research Macroeconomics Annual. Edited by Mark Gertler and Kenneth Rogoff. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004, pp. 224-317. textbook:OECD. OECD Employment Outlook 2006: Boosting Jobs and Incomes. Paris, France: OECD, 2006. textbook:Davis Steven, John Haltiwanger, and Scott Schuh. Job Creation and Destruction. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998, chapters 1 and 2. textbook:Pissarides, Christopher A. Equilibrium Unemployment Theory. 2nd ed. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 2000, chapters 1 and 8. textbook:Caballero, Ricardo J. Specificity and the Macroeconomics of Restructuring. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2007, chapter 3. textbook:Pissarides, Christopher A. Equilibrium Unemployment Theory. 2nd ed. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 2000, chapters 2 and 9. textbook:Caballero, Ricardo J. Specificity and the Macroeconomics of Restructuring. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2007, chapters 4 and 5. textbook:Taylor, John B. Macroeconomic Policy in a World Economy. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 1994, chapters 1-3. textbook:Tirole, Jean. The Theory of Corporate Finance. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2005, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Bernanke, Ben, Mark Gertler, and Simon Gilchrist. "The Financial Accelerator in a Quantitative Business Cycle Framework." Chapter 21 in Handbook of Macroeconomics. Vol. 1C. Edited by John B. Taylor and Michael Woodford. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Guido Lorenzoni,  Olivier Blanchard term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Professor Blanchard will discuss shocks, labor markets and unemployment, and dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models (DSGE models). Professor Lorenzoni will cover demand shocks, macroeconomic effects of news (with or without nominal rigidities), investment with credit constraints, and liquidity with its aggregate effects.
14.462 | Advanced Macroeconomics II (Spring 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-462-advanced-macroeconomics-ii-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:George-Marios Angeletos,  Gilles Saint-Paul term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:14.462 is the second semester of the second-year Ph.D. macroeconomics sequence. The course is intended to introduce the students, not only to particular areas of current research, but also to some very useful analytical tools. It covers a selection of topics that varies from year to year. Recent topics include:  Growth and Fluctuations Heterogeneity and Incomplete Markets Optimal Fiscal Policy Time Inconsistency Reputation Coordination Games and Macroeconomic Complementarities Information 
14.471 | Public Economics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-471-public-economics-i-fall-2012 | textbook:Atkinson, A., and J. Stiglitz. Lectures on Public Economics. Mcgraw-Hill College, 1980. textbook:Auerbach, A., and M. Feldstein. Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 1. North Holland, 1985. textbook:———. Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 2. North Holland, 1987. textbook:———. Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 3. North Holland, 2002. textbook:———. Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 4. North Holland, 2002. textbook:Gruber, J. Public Finance and Public Policy. 3rd ed. Worth Publishers, 2009. textbook:Institute for Fiscal Studies. Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review. Oxford University Press, 2010. textbook:Myles, G. Public Economics. Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Slemrod, J., and J. Bakija. Taxing Ourselves: A Citizen's Guide to the Debate over Taxes. MIT Press, 2008. textbook:U. S. Congress, Congressional Budget Office. The Budget and Economic Outlook: An Update. BiblioGov, 2012. textbook:Congdon, W., J. Kling, and S. Mullainathan. Policy and Choice: Public Finance through the Lens of Behavioral Economics. Brookings Institution Press, 2011. textbook:Evans, W., J. Ringel, and D. Stech. "Tobacco Taxes and Public Policy to Discourage Smoking." In Tax Policy and the Economy. Vol 13. Edited by J. Poterba. MIT Press, 1999, pp. 1–56. textbook:Salanie, B. Chapter 1 in Economics of Taxation. MIT Press, 2011. textbook:Atkinson, A., and J. Stiglitz. Chapter 6 in Lectures on Public Economics. McGraw Hill College, 1980. textbook:Ballard, C., D. Fullerton, et al. Chapters 2, and 3 in A General Equilibrium Model for Tax Policy Evaluation. University of Chicago Press, 1985. textbook:Fullerton, D., and G. Metcalf. "Tax Incidence." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 4. Edited by A. Auerbach, and M. Feldstein. North Holland, 2002. textbook:Alesina, A., E. Glaeser, and B. Sacerdote. "Work and Leisure in the U.S. and Europe: Why So Different?" In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2005. Edited by D. Acemoglu, and K. Rogoff. MIT Press, 2006, pp. 1–64. textbook:Blundell, R., and T. MaCurdy. "Labor Supply: A Review of Alternative Approaches." In Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol 3. Edited by A. Ashenfelter, and D. Card. North Holland, 1999, pp. 1569–1695. textbook:Davis, S., and M. Henrekson. "Tax Effects on Work Activity, Industry Mix, and Shadow Economy Size: Evidence from Rich Country Comparisons." In Labour Supply and Incentives to Work in Europe. Edited by R. Salvador, et al. Edward Elgar Publishing, pp. 44–104. textbook:Hausman, J. "Labor Supply." In How Taxes Affect Economic Behavior. Edited H. Aaron, and J. Pechman. Brookings Institution, 1981, pp. 27–83. textbook:Heckman, J. "Comment." In Behavioral Simulations in Tax Policy Analysis. Edited by M. Feldstein. University of Chicago Press, 1982, pp. 70–82. textbook:Ljungqvist, L., and T. Sargent. "Do Taxes Explain European Employment? Indivisible Labor, Human Capital, Lotteries, and Saving." In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2006. Edited by D. Acemoglu, K. Rogoff, and M. Woodford. MIT Press, 2007, pp. 181–244. textbook:Meghir, C., and D. Phillips. "Labor Supply and Taxes." (PDF) Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review. Edited by Institute for Fiscal Studies. Oxford University Press, 2010. textbook:Moffitt, R., and M. Wilhelm. "Taxes and Labor Supply Decisions of the Affluent." In Does Atlas Shrug? The Economic Consequences of Taxing the Rich. Edited by J. Slemrod. Russell Sage Foundation, 2000, pp. 193–234. textbook:Hotz, V., and J. K. Scholz. "The Earned Income Tax Credit." In Means-Tested Welfare Programs in the United States. Edited by Robert Moffitt. University of Chicago Press, 2003, pp. 141–98. textbook:Feenberg, D., and J. Poterba. "Income Inequality and the Incomes of High Income Taxpayers: Evidence from Tax Returns." In Tax Policy and the Economy. Vol 7. Edited by J. Poterba. MIT Press, 1993, pp. 145–73. textbook:Gruber, J. "Taxes and Health Insurance." (PDF) In Tax Policy and the Economy. Vol 16. Edited by J. Poterba. MIT Press, 2002, pp. 37–66. textbook:———. "Were They Prepared for Retirement? Financial Status at Advanced Ages in the HRS and AHEAD Cohorts." In Investigations in the Economics of Aging. Edited by D. Wise. University of Chicago Press, 2012, pp. 21–69. textbook:Atkinson, A., and J. Stiglitz. Chapter 3 in Lectures in Public Economics. Mcgraw-Hill College, 1980. textbook:Attanasio, O., and M. Wakefield. "The Effect on Consumption and Saving of Taxing Asset Returns." Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review. Edited by Institute for Fiscal Studies. Oxford University Press, 2010, pp. 675–763. textbook:Auerbach, A. "The Choice Between Income and Consumption Taxes: A Primer." (PDF) In Institutional Foundations of Public Finance: Economic and Legal Perspectives. Edited by A. Auerbach, and D. Shaviro. Harvard University Press, 2009. textbook:Auerbach, A., and L. Kotlikoff. Chapter 5 in Dynamic Fiscal Policy. (PDF - 5.8MB) Cambridge University Press, 1987. textbook:McLure, C. The Value Added Tax: Key to Deficit Reduction. American Enterprise Institute, 1988. textbook:Auerbach, A., M. Devereux, and H. Simpson. "Taxing Corporate Income." In Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review. Edited by Institute for Fiscal Studies. Oxford University Press, 2010. textbook:Hassett, K., and R. G. Hubbard. "Tax Policy and Business Investment." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 3. Edited by A. Auerbach, and M. Feldstein. North Holland, 2002, pp. 1294–343. textbook:Shaviro, D. Decoding the U.S. Corporate Income Tax. Urban Institute, 2009. textbook:Myers, S. "Financing of Corporations." In Handbook of the Economics of Finance. Vol 1. Edited by A. G. Constantinides, M. Harris, and R. Stulz. North Holland, 2003, pp. 215–53. textbook:Allen, F., and R. Michaely. "Payout Policy." In Handbook of the Economics of Finance. Vol 1A. Edited by G. Constantinides, M. Harris, and R. Stulz. North Holland, 2003, pp. 337–429. textbook:Auerbach, A. "Taxation and Corporate Financial Policy." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 3. Edited by A. Auerbach and M. Feldstein. North Holland, 2002, pp. 1252–92. textbook:———. "The 2003 Dividend Tax Cuts and the Value of the Firm: An Event Study." In Taxing Capital Income in the 21st Century. Edited by A. Auerbach, J. Hines, and J. Slemrod. Cambridge University Press, 2007, 93–126. textbook:Gordon, R., and M. Dietz. "Dividends and Taxes." In Institutional Foundations of Public Finance: Economic and Legal Perspectives. Edited by A. Auerbach, and D. Shaviro. Harvard University Press, 2009. textbook:Poterba, J., and L. Summers. "The Economic Effects of Dividend Taxation." In Recent Advances in Corporation Finance. Edited by E. Altman, and M. Subrahmanyam. Richard D Irwin, 1985, pp. 227–84. textbook:Auerbach, A. "The Theory of Excess Burden and Optimal Taxation." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 1. Edited by M. Feldstein, and A. Auerbach. North Holland, 1985, pp. 61–125. textbook:Auerbach, A., and J. Hines. "Taxation and Economic Efficiency." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 3. Edited by A. Auerbach and M. Feldstein. North Holland, 2002, pp. 1348–421. textbook:Chari, V. V., and P. Kehoe. "Optimal Fiscal and Monetary Policy." Section 1 in Handbook of Macroeconomics. Edited by J. Taylor, and M. Woodford. North Holland, 1999. textbook:Deaton, A. "Econometric Issues in Tax Design for Developing Countries." (PDF) In The Theory of Taxation in Developing Countries. Edited by D. Newbery, and N. Stern. Oxford University Press, 1987, pp. 92–113. textbook:Myles, G. Chapter 4 in Public Economics. Cambridge University Press, 1985. textbook:Stern, N. "The Theory of Optimal Commodity and Income Taxation: An Introduction." In The Theory of Taxation in Developing Countries. Edited by D. Newbery, and N. Stern. Oxford University Press, 1987, pp. 22–59. textbook:Bovenberg, L., and L. Goulder. "Environmental Taxation and Regulation." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 3. Edited by A. Auerbach, and M. Feldstein. North Holland, 2002, pp. 1474–545. textbook:Parry, I., H. Sigman, et al. "The Incidence of Pollution Control Policies." (PDF) In The International Yearbook of Environmental and Resource Economics 1999/2000: A Survey of Current Issues. Edited by T. Tietenberg, and H. Folmer. Edward Elgar Publishing, 2000, pp. 1–42. textbook:Brewer, M., E. Saez, and A. Shephard. "Means Testing and Tax Rates on Earnings." (PDF - 1.1MB) In Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review. Edited by Institute for Fiscal Studies. Oxford University Press, 2009. textbook:Stiglitz, J. "Pareto Efficient and Optimal Taxation and the New New Welfare Economics." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 2. Edited by A. Auerbach, and M. Feldstein. North-Holland, 1990, pp. 991–1041. textbook:Atkinson, A., and J. Stiglitz. Chapter 8 in Lectures on Public Economics. McGraw Hill College, 1980. textbook:Banks, J., and P. Diamond. "The Base for Direct Taxation." (PDF) In Dimensions of Tax Design: The Mirrlees Review. Edited by Institute for Fiscal Studies. Oxford University Press, 2009. textbook:Bernheim, D. "Taxation and Saving." Chapter 18 in Handbook of Public Economics. Vol 3. Edited by A. Auerbach, and M. Feldstein. North Holland, 2002. textbook:Golosov, M., A. Tsyvinski, and I. Werning. "New Dynamic Public Finance: A User's Guide." (PDF) In NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2006. Edited by D. Acemoglu, K. Rogoff, and M. Woodford. MIT Press, 2007, pp. 317–63. textbook:———. "Advances in Dynamic Optimal Taxation." (PDF) In Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications, Ninth World Congress. Edited by R. Blundell, W. Newey, and T. Persson. Cambridge University Press, 2006, pp. 269–97. textbook:———. The New Dynamic Public Finance. Princeton University Press, 2010. level:Graduate instructors:James Poterba,  Iván Werning term:Fall 2012 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course covers theory and evidence on government taxation policy. Topics include tax incidence, optimal tax theory, the effect of taxation on labor supply and savings, taxation and corporate behavior, and tax expenditure policy.
14.472 | Public Economics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-472-public-economics-ii-spring-2004 | textbook:Atkinson, A., and J. Stiglitz. Lectures on Public Economics. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1980. textbook:Laffont, J. Fundamentals of Public Economics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1988. textbook:Moffit, R. A., ed. Means-Tested Transfer Programs in the United States. National Bureau of Economic Research Conference Report. Chicago, IL; London, UK: University of Chicago Press, 2003. textbook:Myles, G. Public Economics. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Salanie, B. The Economics of Taxation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. textbook:Tresch, R. Public Finance. Revised ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2002. textbook:Ledyard, J. "Public Goods: A Survey of Experimental Research." In The Handbook of Experimental Economics. Edited by J. Kagel and A. Roth. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1995, pp. 111-194. textbook:Clotfelter, C. Federal Tax Policy and Charitable Giving. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1985. textbook:———. "The Impact of Tax Reform on Charitable Giving: A 1989 Perspective." In Do Taxes Matter? Edited by J. Slemrod. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1990, pp. 203-235. textbook:Brown, J., et. al. The Role of Annuity Markets in Financing Retirement. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Brown, J. "Are the Elderly Really Over-Annuitized? New Evidence on Life Insurance and Bequests." In Themes in the Economics of Aging. Edited by D. Wise. University of Chicago Press for NBER, 2001. textbook:Brown, J., O. Mitchell, and J. Poterba. "The Role of Real Annuities and Indexed Bonds in an Individual Accounts Retirement Program." In Risk Aspects of Investment-Based Social Security Reform. Edited by J. Campbell, and M. Feldstein. University of Chicago Press for NBER, 2001. textbook:———. "Differential Mortality and the Value of Individual Account Retirement Annuities." NBER Working Paper No. 7560, and forthcoming in The Distributional Effects of Social Security Reform. Edited by M. Feldstein and J. Liebman. University of Chicago Press for NBER. textbook:Gale, William G., James R. Hines, Jr., and Joel Slemrod. Rethinking Estate and Gift Taxation. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press. textbook:Munnell, A., and A. Sunden. "Death and Dollars." Brookings, 2003. textbook:Atkinson, A. B. "Income Maintenance and Social Insurance." In Handbook of Public Economics. Vol. 2. Edited by A. Auerbach and M. Feldstein. Amsterdam: North Holland, 1987, pp. 779-908. textbook:Diamond, P. Taxation, Incomplete Markets, and Social Security. The 2000 Munich Lectures. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, chapter 3, pp. 17-32, chapter 4, pp. 33-46, chapter 6, pp. 63-85, chapter 7, pp. 87-114. Notes by Peter Diamond. textbook:Diamond, P., and J. Gruber. "Social Security and Retirement in the United States." In Social Security and Retirement Around the World. Edited by Jonathan Gruber and David Wise. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1999, pp. 437-474. textbook:Gruber, J., and D. Wise. "Social Security Programs and Retirement Around the World: Introduction and Summary." In Social Security and Retirement Around the World. Edited by Jonathan Gruber and David Wise. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1999, pp. 1-36. textbook:Gale, D. "The Efficient Design of Public Debt." In Public Debt Management: Theory and History. Edited by R. Dornbusch and M. Draghi. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1990. textbook:Merton, R. C. "On the Role of Social Security as a Means for Efficient Risk Sharing in an Economy where Human Capital is not Tradable. In Financial Aspects of the US Pension System. Edited by Bodie sand Shoven. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago press. textbook:Arnold, D., R. Douglas, M. J. Graetz, and A. H. Munnell. Framing the Social Security Debate, Values, Politics, and Economics. Washington: National Academy of Social Insurance, distributed by Brookings Institution Press. textbook:Baily, M. "Public Policy Implications of Declining Old Age Mortality." In Work, Health, and Income Among the Elderly. Edited by G. Burtless. Washington, DC: The Brookings Institution, 1987. textbook:———. "Insulation of Pensions from Political Risk." Forthcoming in The Economics of Pensions: Principles, Policies, and International Experience. Edited by S. Valdes. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. textbook:———. Saving Social Security. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 2004. textbook:Feldstein, M., ed. Privatizing Social Security. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1998. textbook:Mitchell, O., R. Myers, and H. Young, eds. Prospects for Social Security Reform. Philadelphia, PA: Pension Research Council and University of Pennsylvania Press, forthcoming. textbook:Light, P. Artful Work: The Politics of Social Security Reform. New York, NY: Random House. textbook:Atkinson, A. B. The Economic Consequences of Rolling Back the Welfare State. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Gruber, J., and A. Krueger. "The Incidence of Mandated Employer-Provided Insurance: Lessons from the Workers' Compensation Insurance." In Tax Policy and the Economy. Vol. 5. Edited by D. Bradford. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1991, pp. 111-144. textbook:Blank, R., D. Card, and P. Robins. "Financial Incentives for Increasing Work Among Low-Income Families." In Finding Jobs: Work and Welfare Reform. Edited by Rebecca Blank and David Card. New York: Russell Sage, 2000. textbook:Feldstein, M., and J. Gruber. "A Major Risk Approach to Health Insurance Reform." In Tax Policy and the Economy. Edited by J. Poterba. Vol. 9. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 103-130. textbook:———. "Medicare Policy in the 1990s." In American Economic Policy During the 1990s. Edited by J. Frankel and P. Orszag. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. textbook:———. "Health Insurance and the Labor Market." In Handbook of Health Economics. textbook:Chaloupka, Frank J., and Kenneth Warner. "The Economics of Smoking." In The Handbook of Health Economics. Edited by Anthony Culyer and J. Newhouse. New York, NY: North-Holland, in press, 2000. textbook:Evans, William, Jeanne Ringel, and Diana Stech "Tobacco Taxes and Public Policy to Discourage Smoking." In Tax Policy and the Economy. Vol. 13. Edited by James Poterba. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, pp. 1-56. level:Graduate instructors:Jonathan Gruber,  Peter Diamond term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers theory and evidence on government expenditure policy-- topics include: The theory of public goods; Education; State and local public goods; Political economy; Redistribution and welfare policy; Social insurance programs such as social security and unemployment insurance; and Health care policy.
14.475 | Environmental Economics and Government Responses to Market Failure | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-475-environmental-economics-and-government-responses-to-market-failure-spring-2005 | textbook:Nickell, Stephen and Richard Layard. "Labor Market Institutions and Economics Performance." Handbook of Labor Economics 3C (1999): 3029-3084.                         Heckman, James J. and Carmen Pagés, eds. Law and Employment: Lessons from Latin America and the Caribbean. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Greenstone term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course explores the theory behind and evidence on regulatory, tax, and other government responses to problems of market failure. Special emphasis is given to developing and implementing tools to evaluate environmental policies. Other topics include cost-benefit analysis, measurement of the benefits of non-market goods and costs of regulations, and the evaluation of the impact of regulations in areas such as financial markets, workplace health and safety, consumer product safety, and other contexts.
14.581 | International Economics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-581-international-economics-i-spring-2013 | textbook:[BS] =   Bagwell, Kyle, and Robert W. Staiger. The Economics of the World Trading System. MIT Press, 2004. textbook:[DN] =  Dixit, Avinash, and Victor Norman. Theory of International Trade. Cambridge University Press, 1980. textbook:[F] =  Feenstra, Robert C. Advanced International Trade: Theory and Evidence. Princeton University Press, 2003. textbook:[JK] =  Jones, Ron, and Peter Kenen. Handbook of International Economics. Vol. 1. North Holland, 1998. textbook:[GR] =  Grossman, Gene, and Ken Rogoff. Handbook of International Economics. Vol. 3. North Holland, 1997. textbook:[GH] =                                                                                                                                 Grossman, Gene, and Elhanan Helpman. Innovation and Growth in the Global Economy. MIT Press, 1993. textbook:[HKa] =   Helpman, Elhanan, and Paul Krugman. Market Structure and Foreign Trade: Increasing Returns, Imperfect Competition, and the International Economy. MIT Press, 1987. textbook:[HKb] =   Helpman, Elhanan, and Paul Krugman. Trade Policy and Market Structure. MIT Press, 1989. textbook:[K] =   Krugman, Paul. Rethinking International Trade. MIT Press, 1994. textbook:Rodrik, Dani, and Francisco Rodriguez. "Trade Policy and Economic Growth: A Skeptic's Guide to the Cross-National Evidence." In Kenneth Rogoff and Ben S. Bernanke.  NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2000, MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Baldwin,  Robert E. The Development and Testing of Heckscher-Ohlin Trade Models: A Review (Ohlin Lectures). MIT Press, 2008. textbook:Hartigan. "Specialization and the Volume of Trade: Do the Data Obey the Laws?" Handbook of International Trade: Economic and Legal Analyses of Trade Policy and Institutions. Vol. 2. Edited by Choi and Hartigan. Wiley-Blackwell, 2005. textbook:Davis, and Weinstein. "The Factor Content of Trade." The Handbook of International Trade: Economic and Legal Analyses of Trade Policy and Institutions. Vol. 2. Edited by  J. Choi and J. Harrigan. Wiley-Blackwell, 2005. textbook:Fackler, and Goodwin. "Spatial Price Analysis." In Handbook of Agricultural Economics Volume 1B: Marketing, Distribution, and Consumers. Edited by Gardner and Rausser. North Holland, 2001. textbook:Greif, Avner. Institutions and the Path to the Modern Economy: Lessons From Medieval Trade.Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:Fafchamps. Market Institutions in Sub-Saharan Africa: Theory and Evidence. MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Fujita, Masahisa, Paul Krugman, and Anthony J. Venables.  The Spatial Economy: Cities, Regions and International Trade. MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Dixit, A. "Tax Policy in Open Economies." Handbook of Public Economics. Vol. 1. Edited by A. Auerbach and M. Feldstein. North Holland, 1985. level:Graduate instructors:Arnaud Costinot,  Dave Donaldson term:Spring 2013 features:Lecture notes description:This course covers, with a focus on both theory and empirics, advanced topics in international trade (as well as inter-regional trade and economic geography.) It includes the study of positive issues, such as: Why do countries trade? What goods do countries trade? What are the implications of openness for the location of production, industries, occupations, and innovative activity? And, what impedes trade and why do some countries deliberately erect policy impediments to trade? The course also concerns normative issues, such as: Is trade openness beneficial to a representative agent? And, are there winners and losers from trade and if so, can we identify them? Throughout, these issues are approached in neoclassical settings as well as those with market failures, at the industry-level as well as the firm-level, and in the presence of both mobile and immobile factors (e.g., FDI, offshoring of tasks, multinational firms and immigration).
14.661 | Labor Economics I (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-661-labor-economics-i-fall-2010 | textbook:Ashenfelter, Orley, and Richard Layard, eds. The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 1. North-Holland, 1987. textbook:———. The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 2. North-Holland, 1987. textbook:Ashenfelter, Orley, and David Card, eds. The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3. 3 volume set, vols. 3A, 3B, and 3C. North-Holland, 1999. textbook:Angrist, Joshua, and Jorn-Steffen Pischke. Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Katz, Lawrence, and David Autor. "Changes in the Wage Structure and Earnings Inequality." Chapter 26 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and David Card. North Holland, 1999. textbook:Deaton, Angus, and John Muellbauer.  Economics and Consumer Behavior. Cambridge University Press, 1980. (Focus especially on chapter 4) textbook:Killingsworth, Mark. Chapters 1, 2, and 7 in Labor Supply. Cambridge University Press, 1983. textbook:Blundell, Richard, and Thomas MaCurdy. "Labor Supply: A Review of Alternative Approaches." Chapter 27 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and David Card. North Holland, 1999. textbook:Killingsworth, Mark, and James Heckman. "Female Labor Supply: A Survey." Chapter 2 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 1. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987. textbook:Moffitt, Robert. "Welfare Programs and Labor Supply." Chapter 34 in Handbook of Public Economics. Vol. 4. Edited by Alan Auerbach, and Martin Feldstein. North Holland, 2002. textbook:Ashenfelter, Orley. "The Labor Supply Response of Wage Earners." In Welfare in Rural Areas. Edited by John Palmer, and Joseph Pechman. Brookings Institution, 1978, pp. 109-148. textbook:Becker, Gary, and Gilbert Ghez. Allocation of Time and Goods Over the Life-Cycle. National Bureau of Economic Research, 1975. textbook:Card, David. "Intertemporal Labor Supply: An Assessment." In Advances in Econometrics Sixth World Congress. Vol. II. Edited by Christopher Sims. Cambridge University Press, 1996, pp. 49-78. textbook:Angrist, Joshua, and Jorn-Steffen Pischke. Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Becker, Gary S. A Treatise on the Family. Harvard University Press, 1981. textbook:———. "Home Production—A Survey." Chapter 4 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 1. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987. textbook:Angrist, Joshua, and Jorn-Steffen Pischke. "Instrumental Variables." Chapter 4 in Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Hamermesh, Daniel. Labor Demand. Princeton University Press, 1993. (Read chapters, 2-3, pp. 18-136.) textbook:———. "The Demand for Labor in the Long Run." Chapter 8 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 1. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987. textbook:Nickell, S. "Dynamic Models of Labor Demand." Chapter 9 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 1. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987. textbook:Altonji, J., and David Card. "The Effects of Immigration on the Labor Market Outcomes of Less-Skilled Natives." In Immigration, Trade, and the Labor Market. Edited by John Abowd, and Richard Freeman. University of Chicago Press, 1991, pp. 201-234. textbook:Brown, Charles. "Minimum Wages, Employment, and the Distribution of Income." Chapter 32 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3. 3 volume sets, vols. 3A, 3B, and 3C. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and David Card. North Holland, 1999. textbook:Card, David, and Alan B. Krueger. Myth and Measurement: The New Economics of the Minimum Wage. Princeton University Press, 1997. textbook:Manning, Alan. Monopsony in Motion: Imperfect Competition in Labor Markets. Princeton University Press, 2005. textbook:Freeman, Richard, and James Medoff. What Do Unions Do? Basic Books, 1986. textbook:Lewis, H. Gregg. Union Relative Wage Effects: A Survey. University of Chicago Press, 1986. textbook:Farber, Henry. "The Analysis of Union Behavior." In The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 2. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987. textbook:Angrist, Joshua, and Jorn-Steffen Pischke. "Getting a Little Jumpy: Regression Discontinuity." Chapter 6 in Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Mincer, Jacob. Schooling, Experience, and Earnings. National Bureau of Economics Research, 1974. textbook:Becker, Gary. Human Capital. University of Chicago Press, 1994. textbook:Willis, Richard J. "Wage Determinants: A Survey and Reinterpretation of Human Capital Earnings Functions." Chapter 10 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 2. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987. textbook:Freeman, Richard. "Demand for Education." Chapter 6 in The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 2. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987. textbook:———. "The Causal Effect of Education on Earnings." In The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3. 3 volume set, vols. 3A, 3B, and 3C. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter, and David Card. North Holland, 1999. textbook:Lazear, Edward P. Personnel Economics. MIT Press, 1995. textbook:Schweinhart, Lawrence J., W. Steven Barnett, and Clive Belfield. Lifetime Effects: The HighScope Perry Preschool Study Through Age 40. High/Scope Press, 2005. textbook:Heckman, James, and Alan Krueger. Inequality in America: What Role for Human Capital Policies? MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Orr, Larry, Howard Bloom, Stephen Bell, Fred Doolittle, and Winston Lin. Does Training for the Disadvantaged Work? Evidence from the National JTPA Study. University Press of America, 1996. textbook:Acemoglu, Daron, and Joshua Angrist. "How Large are Human-Capital Externalities? Evidence from Compulsory Schooling Laws." NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2000. Edited by Ben Bernanke and Kenneth Rogoff. MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Angrist, Joshua and Jorn-Steffen Pischke. Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's Companion. Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:Becker, Gary. The Economics of Discrimination. 2nd ed. University of Chicago Press, 1971. textbook:Lang, Kevin. Poverty and Discrimination. Princeton University Press, 2007. level:Graduate instructors:Joshua Angrist,  Christopher Walters<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2010 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:The aim of this course is to acquaint students with traditional topics in labor economics and to encourage the development of independent research interests. We will cover a systematic development of the theory of labor supply, labor demand, and human capital. Topics include wage and employment determination, turnover, search, immigration, unemployment, equalizing differences, and institutions in the labor market. There will be particular emphasis on the interaction between theoretical and empirical modeling.
14.661 | Labor Economics I (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-661-labor-economics-i-fall-2003-fall-2004 | textbook:Ashenfelter, Orley, and Richard Layard. The Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 1 and 2. New York: North-Holland, 1986; Vol. 3A, 3B, and 3C, 1999. textbook:(CZ) Cahuc, Pierre, and Andre Zilberberg. Labor Economics. Cambridge, Mass. and London: MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Laffont, Jean-Jacques, and David Martimort. The Theory of Incentives: The Principal-Agent Model. Princeton, N. J.: Princeton University Press, 2002. textbook:Pissarides, Christopher. Equilibrium Unemployment Theory. Cambridge, Mass. and London: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Lazear, Edward. Personnel Economics. Cambridge, Mass. and London: MIT Press, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:David Autor,  Phillip Oreopoulos term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes description:The aim of this course is to acquaint students with traditional topics in labor economics and to encourage the development of independent research interests. This course is taught in two parts: Fall term and then in the subsequent Fall term.
14.662 | Labor Economics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-662-labor-economics-ii-spring-2015 | textbook:Acemoglu, Daron, and David Autor. "Skills, Tasks and Technologies: Implications for Employment and Earnings." In Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 4b. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and David Card. North Holland, 2010, pp. 1043–171. textbook:Acemoglu, Daron, and David Autor. "Skills, Tasks and Technologies: Implications for Employment and Earnings." In Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 4b. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and David Card. North Holland, 2010, pp. 1043–171. textbook:Goldberg, Pinelopi Koujianou. "Introduction." In Trade and Inequality. Edward Elgar Publications, 2015, pp. 1–27. textbook:Bailey, Martha J., and Susan M Dynarski. "Inequality in Post-secondary Education." In Whither Opportunity?: Rising Inequality, Schools, and Children's Life Chances. Edited by Greg J. Duncan and Richard J. Murnane. Russell Sage Foundation, 2011. textbook:Rosen, Sherwin. "The Theory of Equalizing Differences." Chapter 12 in Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 1. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and Richard Layard. North Holland, 1987, pp. 641–92. level:Graduate instructors:David Autor,  Heidi Williams term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This is a graduate  course in labor economics.  The course will focus on covering theory and evidence on inequality, wage structure, skill demands, employment, job loss, and early-life determinants of long-run outcomes. Particular areas of focus are: (1) wage determination, including the Roy model, equalizing wage differentials,  and models of discrimination; (2) the roles played by supply, demand, institutions, technology and trade in the evolving distribution of income.
14.731 | Economic History (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-731-economic-history-spring-2009 | textbook:Laslett, Peter. The World We Have Lost: Further Explored. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1983, pp. 81-105, chapter 4. Reprint, New York, NY: Routledge, 1989. textbook:Ashton, T. S. The Industrial Revolution, 1760-1830. London, United Kingdom: Oxford University Press, 1948. Reprinted with a preface and bibliography by Pat Hudson. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Gerschenkron, Alexander. Economic Backwardness in Historical Perspective. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1962, pp. 5-30, chapter 1. textbook:Ray, Debraj. Development Economics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1998, chapter 5. textbook:Pomeranz, Kenneth. The Great Divergence: China, Europe, and the Making of the Modern World Economy. Revised ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2001, introduction. textbook:Flath, David. The Japanese Economy. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2005, pp. 21-42, chapter 2. textbook:Williamson, Jeffrey. "Migration and Urbanization." In Handbook of Development Economics. Vol. 1. Edited by Hollis Chenery and T. N. Srinivasan. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1988. textbook:Goldin, Claudia, and Lawrence F. Katz. "Decreasing (and Then Increasing) Inequality in America." Chapter 2 in The Causes and Consequences of Increasing Inequality. Edited by Finis Welch. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2001, pp. 37-82. textbook:Goldin, Claudia. "Preface," "Women's Experience in the American Economy," and "The Emergence of 'Wage Discrimination'." Preface and Chapters 1 and 4 in Understanding the Gender Gap: An Economic History of American Women. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1992, pp. 3-9 and 83-118. textbook:Cutler, David, and Grant Miller. "Water, Water Everywhere: Municipal Finance and Water Supply in American Cities." Chapter 5 in Corruption and Reform: Lessons from America's Economic History. Edited by Edward L. Glaeser and Claudia Goldin. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2008, pp. 153-86. level:Graduate instructors:Richard A. Hornbeck term:Spring 2009 features:Assignments and solutions description:This course is a survey of world economic history, and it introduces economics students to the subject matter and methodology of economic history. It is designed to expand the range of empirical settings in students' research by drawing upon historical material and long-run data. Topics are chosen to show a wide variety of historical experience and illuminate the process of industrialization. The emphasis will be on questions related to labor markets and economic growth.
14.731 | Economic History (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-731-economic-history-fall-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dora Costa,  Peter Termin term:Fall 2006 features: description:This course offers a comprehensive survey of world economic history, designed to introduce economics graduate students to the subject matter and methodology of economic history. Topics are chosen to show a wide variety of historical experience and illuminate the process of industrialization. A final term paper is due at the end of the course.
14.771 | Development Economics: Microeconomic Issues and Policy Models | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-771-development-economics-microeconomic-issues-and-policy-models-fall-2008 | textbook:Bardhan, Pranab, and Christopher Udry. Development Microeconomics. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Deaton, Angus. The Analysis of Household Surveys. Baltimore, MD: John Hopkins University Press, 1997. textbook:Ray, Debraj. Development Economics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1998. textbook:Banerjee, Abhijit, Roland Benabou and Dilip Mookherjee, eds. Understanding Poverty. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2006. textbook:Angrist, Josh, and Alan Krueger. "Empirical Strategies in Labor Economics." Chapter 23 in Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and David Card. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1999. textbook:Duflo, Esther, Rachel Glennerster, and Michael Kremer. "Using Randomization in Development Economics Research: A Toolkit." Chapter 61 in Handbook of Development Economics. Vol. 4. Edited by T. Paul Schultz and John Strauss. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 2008. textbook:Caselli, Francesco. "Accounting for Cross-Country Income Differences." Chapter 9 in Handbook of Economic Growth. Vol. 1A. Edited by Philippe Aghion and Steven Durlauf. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 2006. textbook:Strauss, John, and Duncan Thomas. "Human Resources: Empirical Modeling of Household and Family Decisions." Chapter 34 in Handbook of Development Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Jere Behrman and T. N. Srinivasan. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1995. textbook:Card, David. "The Causal Effect of Education on Earnings." Chapter 30 in Handbook of Labor Economics. Vol. 3A. Edited by Orley Ashenfelter and David Card. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1999. textbook:Glewwe, Paul, and Michael Kremer. "Schools, Teachers, and Education Outcomes in Developing Countries." Chapter 16 in Handbook of the Economics of Education. Vol. 2. Edited by Erik A. Hanushek and Finis Welch. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 2006. textbook:Wade, Robert. Village Republics: Economic Conditions for Collective Action in South India. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2007. textbook:Banerjee, Abhijit. "Prospects and Strategies for Land Reforms." In Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics 1999. Edited by Boris Pleskovic and Joseph E. Stiglitz. Washington, DC: World Bank, 2001, pp. 253-284. textbook:Banerjee, Abhijit. "Contracting Constraints, Credit Markets, and Economic Development." In Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications, Eight World Congress of the Econometric Society. Vol. 3. Edited by M. Dewatripoint, L. Hansen and S. Turnovsky. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2003, pp. 1-46. level:Graduate instructors:Benjamin Olken,  Esther Duflo,  Abhijit Banerjee term:Fall 2008 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Topics include productivity effects of health, private and social returns to education, education quality, education policy and market equilibrium, gender discrimination, public finance, decision making within families, firms and contracts, technology, labor and migration, land, and the markets for credit and savings.
14.772 | Development Economics: Macroeconomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-772-development-economics-macroeconomics-spring-2013 | textbook:Levine, R. "Finance and Growth: Theory and Evidence." Chapter 12 in Handbook of Economic Growth. Vol. 1A. Edited by P. Aghion and S. N. Durlauf. North Holland, 2006, pp. 865–934. textbook:Samphantharak, K., and R. M. Townsend. Chapter 4 in Households as Corporate Firms: An Analysis of Household Finance Using Integrated Household Surveys and Corporate Financial Accounting. Econometric Society Monograph Series. Cambridge University Press, 2009. textbook:Collins, D., Jonathan Morduch, et al. Portfolios of the Poor: How the World's Poor Live on $2 a Day. Princeton University Press, 2009. level:Graduate instructors:Robert M. Townsend term:Spring 2013 features:Video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course emphasizes dynamic models of growth and development. Topics covered include: migration, modernization, and technological change; static and dynamic models of political economy; the dynamics of income distribution and institutional change; firm structure in developing countries; development, transparency, and functioning of financial markets; privatization; and banks and credit market institutions in emerging markets. At MIT, this course was team taught by Prof. Robert Townsend, who taught for the first half of the semester, and Prof. Abhijit Banerjee, who taught during the second half.  On OCW we are only including materials associated with sessions one through 13, which comprise the first half of the class.
14.778J | Economic Institutions and Growth Policy Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/urban-studies-and-planning/11-486j-economic-institutions-and-growth-policy-analysis-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Michael Piore,  Alice Amsden term:Fall 2005 features: description:This course is designed for students particularly concerned with the practical problems of operating in large formal organizations, either from an operational or a research perspective. It will focus, as the title suggests, upon different forms of economic organizations and institutions in advanced and developing industrial societies and the theories (and theoretical perspectives) which might help us to understand them.
14.781J | Political Economy I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/political-science/17-100j-political-economy-i-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Suzanne Berger,  Michael Piore term:Fall 2010 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:Political Economy I explores the major social science paradigms for analyzing relations among state, economy, and society. Through readings, lectures and discussion of original texts in political liberalism and individualism, neo-classical economics, Marxism, sociological and cultural theories, and neo-institutionalism, the seminar examines the fundamental assumptions on which our understanding of the social world and our research are based.
