FINANCE201 | Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE201 | instructors:McQuade, T. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential in most of these decisions is the process of valuation, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, capital structure choice, payout policy, the use and valuation of derivative securities, and risk management. This course is targeted to those students who are new to finance and for those with little quantitative background.
FINANCE204 | Finance - Accelerated | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE204 | instructors:Breon-Drish, B. (PI); Smith, J. (GP); Bryzgalova, S. (SI) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential in most of these decisions is the process of valuation, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, capital structure choice, the use and valuation of derivative securities (e.g., options and convertible securities), and risk management.nnNo previous background in finance is required or expected, but in comparison with Finance 201, less time will be spent in class on the steps involved in solving basic problems. Therefore, students choosing this course should be relatively comfortable with basic mathematical operations (e.g., expressions involving multiplication of multiple terms, summation of multiple terms, etc.), though familiarity with the underlying finance concepts is not expected. A good diagnostic is to skim Section 4.2 "Rules for Time Travel" (pp. 98-104) in the course textbook, Corporate Finance by Berk and DeMarzo. If you are comfortable with the level of basic mathematics involved (even if the concepts are new), 204 is a good choice. If not, you should consider Finance 201.
FINANCE211 | Corporate Finance: Applications, Techniques, and Models | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE211 | instructors:Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:The focus of this course is to apply the fundamental ideas and tools of corporate finance to real-world corporate decisions. This course is designed to be the second course in the standard finance sequence; that is, it is designed to be the natural follow-up to the Winter Managerial Finance course. This course will develop and extend standard tools and techniques of financial analysis, valuation, and model-building, and apply these methods to a wide range of cases. Case topics will include capital structure, valuation, mergers and acquisitions, private equity, international finance, and financial distress.  Students will be expected to develop detailed model-based analyses for the cases using the tools and techniques we develop in this course, and to employ their analyses to reach and defend specific recommendations for these cases.
FINANCE229 | MSx: Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE229 | instructors:Vanasco, V. (PI); Rojas, D. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of corporate finance including the management of capital structure, financial forecasting, dividend policy, financial distress, cost of capital and capital budgeting. It discusses the major financial decisions made by corporate managers and the impact of those decisions on investors and the value of the firm. Topics include criteria for understanding the valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, market efficiency, and the role of derivative securities, including options. The course also provides coverage of the role of financial markets in the operations of the firm.
FINANCE310 | Finance - Advanced | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE310 | instructors:Lustig, H. (PI); Haga, M. (GP) description:This advanced applications course brings recent advances in finance to bear on real-world challenges in investment management and corporate finance with an emphasis on capital markets. The goal of this course is to develop a deeper understanding of how capital markets actually work, drawing on recent advances in modern finance. We discuss the implications for financial decision making by managers and investors. The course is intended for MBA1 students who are familiar with the foundations of finance, including discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis, internal rate of return (IRR) calculations, mean-variance analysis and the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM). Examples of broad topics covered in the class include challenges in portfolio management, performance analysis of mutual funds, hedge funds and private equity, IPOs, hedging of currency and interest rate risk, etc. To be eligible, students must have passed the placement exam in Week Zero, must have solid quantitative skills and have a willingness to analyze data.
FINANCE319 | Private Equity Investing Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE319 | instructors:McDonald, J. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:This PE Investing seminar launched in 1993 focuses on private equity investing, including investments with control, buyouts, and minority investments at various stages in a company's life. Private equity investing activity has grown significantly over the past 2 decades. This seminar explores selected topics in private equity investing for those MBA students who take the corequisite course FINANCE 321.01, Investment Management and Entrepreneurial Finance. Private equity includes both established and early stage companies. The course extends and deepens the entrepreneurial finance area for those with an interest in private equity, venture capital and principal investing, taking a global view. Utilization will be made of original case studies and lecture-discussions, building on the framework of FINANCE 321. The Seminar meets with many outstanding investors. All those registered in F321.01 will also be registered in F319. See yellow Term Sheet put in MBA Boxes in early May. All those registered in F321.02 will also be registered in F329. See yellow Term Sheet.
FINANCE321 | Investment Management and Entrepreneurial Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE321 | instructors:McDonald, J. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:Our focus is fundamental value investing. Equity investment in companies, common stocks, early/growth stage ventures and private equity, deals, partnerships, hedge funds, or other entrepreneurial opportunities will be immediately or eventually important for most MBAs--either on the investing side or on the fund-raising financing side. This investment course discusses many practical and conceptual factors influencing the analysis and value of companies and deals, including publicly listed and private equity investments, and on success of investment approaches. The focus of this course is on quoted and private equity investments and on entrepreneurial finance. The format of the class is primarily case discussions and lecture discussions led by the professor and investors/principals who were involved in the case. This course enables MBA students to learn a broad investing skill-set and to study outstanding investors. See yellow Term Sheet put in MBA Boxes in early May.
FINANCE329 | Investment Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE329 | instructors:McDonald, J. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:F329 - Investment Seminar: "Global Principal Investing/Hedge Funds" is a seminar focused on selected topics in masterful investing in publicly traded with some private equity capital investments, with emphasis on the principal's point of view. We study hedge funds and mutual funds and meet with outstanding investors. The scope and context is global including emerging markets. The Seminar is taught by a founding director of one of the largest international investment funds. All those registered in F321.01 will also be registered in F319. See yellow Term Sheet put in MBA Boxes in early May. All those registered in F321.02 will also be registered in F329. See yellow Term Sheet.
FINANCE337 | Business Decision Making | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE337 | instructors:Berk, J. (PI); Bradford, D. (SI) description:This experiential course will focus on how to make a business decision correctly. The theory will focus on common behavior biases and mistakes. Students will practice making business decisions by analyzing a business case each week.
FINANCE341 | Modeling for Investment Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE341 | instructors:Grenadier, S. (PI); Watson, J. (SI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course will combine practical and up-to-date investment theory with modeling applications. Understanding beautiful theory, without the ability to apply it, is essentially useless. Conversely, creating state-of-the-art spreadsheets that apply incorrect theory is a waste of time. Here, we try to explicitly combine theory and application. The course will be divided into 6 modules, or topics. The first day of each module will be a lecture on an investment topic. Also provided is a team modeling project on the topic. The second day of each module will be a lab. The lab day will begin with modeling concepts (tips) designed to help you use Excel to implement the module's investment topic. After the tips are provided, the remainder of the lab day is devoted to teams working on their modeling project and allowing for Q&A. On the third day of each module will be presentations and wrap-up.
FINANCE345 | History of Financial Crises | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE345 | instructors:Koudijs, P. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:Financial crises are as old as financial markets themselves. There are many similarities between historical events. The recent credit crisis, for example, is far from unique. More often than not financial crises are the result of bubbles in certain asset classes or can be linked to a specific form of financial innovation. This course gives an overview of the history of financial crises, asset price bubbles, banking collapses and debt crises. We start with the Tulip mania in 1636 and end with the recent credit and debt crises. The purpose of the course is to understand the causes of past crises and to develop a conceptual framework that ties common elements together. We will discuss the lessons that we can draw for financial markets today.
FINANCE347 | Money and Banking | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE347 | instructors:Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Moore, N. (GP) description:This course is designed to help students understand the connections between money (the Federal Reserve), financial markets, and the macroeconomy. How are interest rates determined, and how does the Federal Reserve conduct monetary policy? What economic factors drive the yield curves in different bond markets?  We will pay particular attention to the banking system, with an eye toward understanding the function and importance of banks.  Topics will include the role of the Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort during the recent, and prior, financial crises, unconventional monetary policy tools such as quantitative easing and forward guidance. We discuss the role of the government in regulating the financial sector, paying particular attention to capital requirements for banks.  We will often begin class with a discussion of current macro-financial market events in the context of our course coverage. The course is appropriate for anyone trying to gain a macroeconomic perspective on capital markets, from investors to bankers, or those simply interested in the linkages between interest rates, banks and the economy.  Given the topics we cover, the course will also be interesting to those who want a better understanding of the 2007-2009 financial crisis and the ongoing Federal Reserve experiment in unconventional monetary policy.
FINANCE350 | Corporate Financial Modeling | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE350 | instructors:DeMarzo, P. (PI) description:The course will take the perspective of a mid-level manager or decision-maker who is responsible for collecting, analyzing, and utilizing financial information in the context of a major transaction. We will integrate theories presented throughout courses in the core, particularly accounting and finance, and take a hands-on approach to understand how the theory is implemented in practice. The focus of the course will be on developing critical financial modeling skills, understanding best practices, and recognizing common pitfalls. Students will work on a series of cases and build models that can be used for earnings and pro-forma financial statement forecasts, valuation, the assessment of financing needs, merger analysis, and LBO evaluation. Students will also gain experience presenting financial models and critically assessing them. By the conclusion of the course, students will develop the skills to construct complex financial models and the logical frameworks to utilize them for various organizational applications. [Note: This course is geared toward students relatively new to financial modeling; those with extensive financial modeling backgrounds may be better served by an alternative course.]
FINANCE351 | Advanced Corporate Financial Modeling | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE351 | instructors:DeMarzo, P. (PI) description:Students will engage in the development of corporate financial modeling cases and solutions. Students will also develop materials to aid others in building financial models, and serve as case leaders during lab workshops. Extensive background in financial modeling and experience with Excel is required.
FINANCE373 | Entrepreneurial Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE373 | instructors:Bernstein, S. (PI); Siegel, R. (SI) description:This is a course about the financial decision-making process largely from the point of view of the CEO of an entrepreneurial venture, ranging from very early to very late stages. The course takes a two-pronged approach: First, we develop tools and concepts of corporate finance related to modeling, valuation, control, and investment decisions within an entrepreneurial context. Second, we use cases with firms at different stages of their life cycles from initial angel or venture capital investments through exit decisions, in order to see the issues that arise when these principles are applied in practice. In some cases we show the viewpoint of the entrepreneur and in others the perspective of the investor. After all, as an entrepreneur, one cannot negotiate effectively without understanding an investor's motivations. Conversely, an investor cannot evaluate a potential investment opportunity without appreciating the entrepreneur's perspective and incentives. Finally, we explore new developments in entrepreneurial finance such as crowdfunding and early liquidity provisions.
FINANCE381 | Private Equity in Frontier Markets: Creating a New Investible Asset Class | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE381 | instructors:Meehan, B. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP); Hartmann, M. (SI) description:In 2001, Jim O'Neil of Goldman Sachs wrote a research note which underscored the importance of so-called Emerging Markets to a well-balanced investment portfolio. Still today, most investors have little or no investment exposure beyond North America, Europe, Japan and more recently India, China and Brazil. All of this is just beginning to change. The not yet fully formed investment category called frontier market private equity is emerging and within the next decade is likely to be an asset class of its own. Private equity investments are being made in southeast Asia, in MENA(Middle East/ North Africa), in sub-Saharan countries beyond South Africa and in Latin America. Even fund of funds are appearing across these markets. At the same time, investors face a world of diminished returns expectations in developed economies just as aging demographics and the need for continued growth, innovation and infrastructure renewal places increasing demands for payout. Suffice it to say, investors will be looking beyond traditional asset classes and geographies for sources of return. This new course is designed to expose you to the still emerging, not yet fully formed world of frontier market private equity. To set the context we will start by reviewing the fundamentals of economic growth and development globally. In addition we will discuss the fundamental concepts involved in constructing and evaluating the performance of a large scale investment portfolio. We will then review cases on the elements of the private equity cycle/process and specifically address the special demands of frontier markets in general. We will also focus on issues that are specific to various markets (e.g. Nigeria, Vietnam, etc.). Students taking the course will be given the opportunity to make important contributions to the knowledge base of this still very young field by working in small teams to research topics of personal and general interest, the results of which will be reported to the rest of the class.
FINANCE548 | The Political Economy of Banking Regulation in US and Europe | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE548 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Schulz, H. (SI); Ponce, S. (GP) description:The 2007-09 financial crisis exposed the extreme fragility of the financial system and the harm financial crises can cause. Have regulatory reforms in the US and Europe been effective and, if not, how and why?  Does it matter if some institutions are "too big to fail," and, if so, how and why? This course will discuss the economic and political forces that are shaping the financial system in US and Europe and evaluate recent and current events that will have important implications for the economy for many years. We will see how politics trumps economics in Washington, London and Brussels in different but broadly predictable ways.
FINANCE555 | Private Wealth Management and Private Investing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE555 | instructors:Parker, G. (PI); Rappaport, A. (SI); Lion, C. (GP) description:The Private Wealth Management and Private Investing course will address issues that relate to the management of personal assets as opposed to institutional investing. It will cover the historical origins and growth of private wealth management, investment planning, risk management, inter-generational transfers of wealth, philanthropy and tax planning. Classes will focus on case studies and various readings. Two instructors will lead the class, one from the GSB and one from the private wealth management industry. Most classes will be augmented by visits from professionals in the wealth management and private banking business. Active class participation and a group project are required.
FINANCE562 | Financial Trading Strategies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE562 | instructors:Mak, K. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:The purpose of this course is to familiarize students with the different types of trading strategies employed by various money management institutions. These financial trading strategies are used to manage the risk and return profiles of specific portfolios. Throughout the sessions, students will be challenged to understand and explore the application and implementation of these different strategies. Trading simulations employed on the Rotman Interactive Trader and Rotman Portfolio Manager (using real market data and computer generated data) will be used extensively in this course as a way to learn and test different strategies. All classes will be held in the new Real-time Analytics and Investment Lab (RAIL), located on the third floor of the Bass Building (B312). Students are expected to attend all sessions. Graded are based on in-class simulation results, class participation, and two written assignments. This course is designed to have a fast learning curve and is a pre-requisite for FIN563, the advanced extension of this course.
FINANCE563 | Financial Trading Strategies 2 | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE563 | instructors:Mak, K. (PI) description:This course is an extension of FIN562, Financial Trading Strategies. Students will expand on introductory topics from the Financial Trading Strategies Course and be required to build extensive live-market models and risk management models. Class discussions will closely link current market events and pricing anomalies to theoretical and simulated markets and we will closely study the deviations between them.
FINANCE587 | Private Equity - An Overview of the Industry | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE587 | instructors:Parker, G. (PI); Powers, J. (SI); Lion, C. (GP) description:This 2-unit elective at the GSB is an analytical review and overview of private equity partnerships. The course looks at all aspects of private equity investing and may be of interest to five groups of students: (i) students who aspire to be employed in private equity as a career; (ii) students who plan to be employed by operating companies that are owned by private equity firms; (iii) students who may invest in private equity partnerships as a limited partner; (iv) students who find private equity to be an interesting part of the financial community in general (v) students who expect to participate in corporate business development or mergers and acquisitions. The course will meet for nine classes, most for a duration of 90 minutes. One class will be a mock investment review committee presentation as a final project.
FINANCE620 | Financial Markets I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE620 | instructors:Berk, J. (PI); Love, L. (GP) description:This course is an introductory PhD level course in financial economics. We begin with individual choice under uncertainty, then move on to equilibrium models, the stochastic discount factor methodology, no-arbitrage pricing and corporate finance. We will also address some empirical puzzles relating to asset markets, and explore the models that have been developed to try to explain them.
FINANCE621 | Financial Markets II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE621 | instructors:Koudijs, P. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course continues F620 and covers a number of main concepts in market microstructure. Among the topics that are covered are (i) Rational Expectations models and their foundations (ii) strategic trading models (iii) models of market and funding liquidity. In addition to the discussion of theoretic models time will be allotted to empirical applications.
FINANCE624 | Corporate Finance Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE624 | instructors:Zwiebel, J. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course considers a wide range of topics in theoretical corporate finance (broadly interpreted). Topics include capital structure decisions, agency conflicts in the firm, dividend policy, security design, optimal financial contracting, the theory of the firm, the market for corporate control, and banking and financial intermediation, among others. The primary focus is on how asymmetric information, agency conflicts, strategic interactions, and incomplete contracting affect corporate financial decision-making. The course aims both to familiarize students with influential papers and current research, and to promote new research ideas in the area.
FINANCE625 | Empirical Asset Pricing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE625 | instructors:Lustig, H. (PI) description:This course is an introduction to empirical research in asset pricing. The focus of the course is on the interplay between financial economic theory, econometric method, and that analysis of financial market data. Topics include tests of asset pricing models, return predictability in time-series and cross-section, empirical studies of asset market imperfections, and studies of individual and professional investor behavior. Class discussions will draw on textbooks/monographs and original articles and working papers.
FINANCE626 | Advanced Corporate Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE626 | instructors:Strebulaev, I. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This is a course on contemporary theoretical and empirical issues in corporate finance. Building upon the first-year courses in corporate finance theory and empirical methods in finance, we will examine issues in asset pricing applications to corporate finance, dynamic capital structure (dynamic financing decisions), financial distress, financing and investment interactions, and behavioral corporate finance. Both conceptual economic frameworks and econometric methods will be developed as needed. A requirement for this course is that students complete two written projects, one theoretical and one empirical, and at least one of these projects will be presented to the class.
FINANCE630 | Empirical Corporate Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE630 | instructors:Bernstein, S. (PI) description:This course provides an introduction to empirical research in corporate finance, with an emphasis on the application of cross-sectional and panel data econometric techniques for causal inference. Topics include investment policy, entrepreneurship and innovation, financing decisions, firm ownership, corporate governance, managerial incentives, financial contracting, and the structure and internal organization of firms. The course assumes knowledge of econometrics at the level of MGTECON 603.
FINANCE632 | Empirical Dynamic Asset Pricing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE632 | instructors:Singleton, K. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course explores the interplay between dynamic asset pricing theory, statistical assumptions about sources of risk, and the choice of econometric methods for analysis of asset return data. Therefore, the lectures will be a blend of theory, econometric method, and critical review of empirical studies. Both arbitrage-free and equilibrium preference-based pricing models will be discussed, with particular emphasis given to recent developments and outstanding puzzles in the literature. The prerequisites for F632 are MGTECON 603 - 604, Finance 620, Finance 622, and Finance 625. In particular, I will assume familiarity with dynamic asset pricing theory, at the level of F622; and large-sample theory for least-squares, generalized method-of-moments, and maximum likelihood estimation methods. We will review these methods in the context of specific applications, but this material will not be developed in depth.
FINANCE633 | Advanced Empirical Corporate Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE633 | instructors:Rauh, J. (PI); Davis, S. (GP) description:This class is devoted to recent developments in the empirical corporate finance literature. Topics include: financial contracting, liquidation and renegotiation, taxation and capital structure, the role of labor markets, leveraged buyouts, executive compensation, the causes and consequences of the financial crisis, and implications of finance for the public sector. The class is very interactive. Many of the sessions will consist of student presentations about the papers from the reading list. We will also further explore empirical methods relevant for applied research in corporate finance, with a focus on identification and panel data issues.
FINANCE637 | Macroeconomics and Financial Markets | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE637 | instructors:Piazzesi, M. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (SI); Moore, N. (GP) description:This course will cover research topics at the boundary between macroeconomics and finance. Topics may include the study of macroeconomic models with financial frictions, conventional and unconventional monetary policy, its transmission mechanism and the term structure of interest rates, sovereign debt crises, search frictions and segmentation in housing markets, (over)leveraging by households, heterogeneous expectations, excess volatility, financial bubbles and crises.
FINANCE691 | PhD Directed Reading (ACCT 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MGTECON 691, MKTG 691, OB 691, OIT 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE691 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); Bryzgalova, S. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
FINANCE692 | PhD Dissertation Research (ACCT 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MGTECON 692, MKTG 692, OB 692, OIT 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE692 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); Bryzgalova, S. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Ponce, S. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
FINANCE698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE698 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); Bryzgalova, S. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Love, L. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
FINANCE699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE699 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); Bryzgalova, S. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Kocharyan, N. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Ponce, S. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
FINANCE802 | TGR Dissertation (ACCT 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MGTECON 802, MKTG 802, OB 802, OIT 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE802 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Ponce, S. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP) description:
