OIT245 | Optimization and Simulation Modeling | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT245 | instructors:Iancu, D. (PI); O'Hair, A. (PI); Pham, J. (GP) description:This course provides basic skills in quantitative modeling. The objective is to familiarize students with the main steps in an analytical approach to business decision making: constructing an abstract model for a relevant business problem, formulating it in a spreadsheet environment such as Microsoft Excel, and using the tools of optimization, Monte Carlo simulation and sensitivity analysis to generate and interpret recommendations. The class will be taught in a lab style, with short in-class exercises done in small teams, focusing on a variety of applications drawn from advertising, healthcare, finance, supply chain management, revenue and yield optimization.
OIT247 | Optimization and Simulation Modeling - Accelerated | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT247 | instructors:Bimpikis, K. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Pham, J. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP) description:The course is similar in content and emphasis to OIT 245, but is aimed at students who already have background or demonstrated aptitude for quantitative analysis, and thus are comfortable with a more rapid coverage of the topics, in more depth and breadth.
OIT256 | Electronic Business (Accelerated) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT256 | instructors:Mendelson, H. (PI); Haga, M. (GP) description:This course focuses on the way information technology affects the structure of business models. It considers the impact of information technology on industries ranging from retail to logistics and from healthcare to smartphones. It considers how you can take advantage of new technology opportunities and how they change the structure of firms, industries and value chains, with an emphasis on business issues. Classes combine lecture and case study discussions and the workload is above the GSB average. The course is designed to help you make a transition into technology-related fields.
OIT262 | Operations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT262 | instructors:Gur, Y. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Wein, L. (PI) description:This course focuses on basic managerial issues arising in the operations of both manufacturing and service industries. The objectives of the course are to familiarize students with the problems and issues confronting operations managers and to introduce language, conceptual models, and analytical techniques that are broadly applicable in confronting such problems. The spectrum of different process types used to provide goods and services is developed and then examined through methods of process analysis and design.
OIT265 | Data and Decisions | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT265 | instructors:Benkard, L. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:This is the base version of D&D. This course introduces the fundamental concepts and techniques for analyzing risk and formulating sound decisions in uncertain environments. Approximately half of the course focuses on probability and its application. The remainder of the course examines statistical methods for interpreting and analyzing data including sampling concepts, regression analysis, and hypothesis testing. Applications include inventory management, demand analysis, portfolio analysis, surveys and opinion polls, A/B testing, environmental contamination, online advertising and the role of analytics in business settings more generally. The course emphasizes analytical techniques and concepts that are broadly applicable to business problems.
OIT267 | Data and Decisions - Accelerated | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT267 | instructors:Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Lion, C. (GP) description:Data and Decisions - Accelerated is a first-year MBA course in probability, statistics, multiple regression analysis, and decision trees for students with strong quantitative backgrounds. Probability provides the foundation for modeling uncertainties. Statistics provides techniques for interpreting data, permitting managers to use small amounts of information to answer larger questions. Regression analysis provides a method for determining the relationship between a dependent variable and predictor variables. Decision tree analysis consists of quantitative approaches to decision making under uncertainty. Students taking this course need to be comfortable with mathematical notation, algebra, and some calculus. If you are not confident with your quantitative abilities, then you should enroll in OIT 265. Accelerated D&D will cover material covered in OIT 265 plus some additional topics such as discrete dependent variable models. While OIT 267 focuses on real world applicability, we will explore the mathematical underpinnings of these topics in more depth than OIT 265 as an avenue for deeper understanding. The group regression project is a key component of the course.
OIT273 | Value Chain Innovations in Developing Economies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT273 | instructors:Lee, H. (PI); Khojasteh, J. (GP); Pham, J. (GP) description:This course is about how to use entrepreneurship and innovations in the value chains to create values in developing economies. The course will cover important principles and ways in which the value chains can be re-engineered or new business models can be designed to create values. In addition to materials covering a diversity of industries and geographical regions, the course will also enable students to be exposed to some of the interventions that the Stanford Institute of Innovation in Developing Economies (SEED) is working on in West Africa. Work and exam requirements: Students are expected to develop a project report on either portfolio companies related to SEED or other enterprises to show how value chain innovations can be advanced.
OIT333 | Design for Extreme Affordability | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT333 | instructors:Beach, D. (PI); Coulson, S. (PI); Gorodsky, J. (PI); Patell, J. (PI) description:This course is a Bass Seminar. Project course jointly offered by School of Engineering and Graduate School of Business. Students apply engineering and business skills to design product or service prototypes, distribution systems, and business plans for entrepreneurial ventures that meet that challenges faced by the world's poor. Topics include user empathy, appropriate technology design, rapid prototype engineering and testing, social technology entrepreneurship, business modeling, and project management. Weekly design reviews; final course presentation. Industry and adviser interaction. Limited enrollment via application; see http://extreme.stanford.edu/index.html for details.
OIT334 | Design for Extreme Affordability | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT334 | instructors:Patell, J. (PI) description:This course is a Bass Seminar. Project course jointly offered by School of Engineering and Graduate School of Business. Students apply engineering and business skills to design product or service prototypes, distribution systems, and business plans for entrepreneurial ventures that meet that challenges faced by the world's poor. Topics include user empathy, appropriate technology design, rapid prototype engineering and testing, social technology entrepreneurship, business modeling, and project management. Weekly design reviews; final course presentation. Industry and adviser interaction. Limited enrollment via application; see http://extreme.stanford.edu/index.html for details.
OIT356 | Electronic Business | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT356 | instructors:Mendelson, H. (PI); Haga, M. (GP) description:This course focuses on the way information technology affects the structure of firms, industries and business models. It considers the impact of information technology on multiple industries and how you can take advantage of new opportunities that are enabled by new technologies. The course is a compressed 2-unit course, where each session comprises a lecture followed by the application of the concepts to specific companies or industries. The workload is above the GSB average. The course assumes a good understanding of business applications of information technology. Topics include: Electronic platforms, business models for online retail, electronic commerce logistics, disruptive technologies, value chain coordination in healthcare, and mobile value chains.
OIT364 | Global Operations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT364 | instructors:Lee, H. (PI); Whang, S. (PI) description:Globalization of businesses has resulted in companies having to manage global networks of suppliers, integrators, contract manufacturers, logistics service providers, distributors, and service support operators in geographically dispersed locations. The customer network is also globally distributed. This course will focus on (1) how global and international companies can overcome the geographical, cultural, and organizational barriers, and leverage the strengths of the network to create values, and (2) how these companies may use different ways to manage operations in different regions to take full advantage of the local strengths and limitations. The course will be based on cases on innovative strategies and tactics used by global and international companies.
OIT367 | Business Intelligence from Big Data | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT367 | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Davis, S. (GP) description:The objective of this course is to analyze real-world situations where significant competitive advantage can be obtained through large-scale data analysis, with special attention to what can be done with the data and where the potential pitfalls lie. Students will be challenged to develop business-relevant questions and then solve for them by manipulating large data sets. Problems from advertising, eCommerce, finance, healthcare, marketing, and revenue management are presented. Students learn to apply software (such as R and SQL) to data sets to create knowledge that will inform decisions. The course covers fundamentals of statistical modeling, machine learning, and data-driven decision making. Students are expected to layer these topics over an existing facility with mathematical notation, algebra, calculus, probability, and basic statistics.
OIT384 | Biodesign Innovation: Needs Finding and Concept Creation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT384 | instructors:Brinton, T. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Hellman, E. (GP) description:This is the first quarter of a two-quarter course series. In this two-quarter course (BIOE 374A/B, MED 272A/B, ME 368A/B, OIT 384/5), multidisciplinary student teams identify real-world unmet healthcare needs, invent new medtech products to address them, and plan for their development into patient care. During the first quarter (winter 2016), students select and characterize an important unmet healthcare problem, validate it through primary interviews and secondary research, and then brainstorm and screen initial technology-based solutions. In the second quarter (spring 2016), teams select a lead solution and move it toward the market through prototyping, technical re-risking, strategies to address healthcare-specific requirements (regulation, reimbursement), and business planning. Final presentations in winter and spring are made to a panel of prominent medtech experts and investors. Class sessions include faculty-led instruction and case demonstrations, coaching sessions by industry specialists, expert guest lecturers, and interactive team meetings. Enrollment is by application only, and students are expected to participate in both quarters of the course. Visit http://biodesign.stanford.edu/bdn/courses/bioe374.jsp to access the application, examples of past projects, and student testimonials. More information about the Biodesign program, which has led to the creation of more than 30 venture-backed healthcare companies and has helped hundreds of student launch medtech careers, can be found at http://biodesign.stanford.edu/.
OIT385 | Biodesign Innovation: Concept Development and Implementation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT385 | instructors:Yock, P. (PI); Brinton, T. (SI); Watkins, F. (SI) description:This is the second quarter of a two-quarter course series. In this two-quarter course (BIOE 374A/B, MED 272A/B, ME 368A/B, OIT 384/5), multidisciplinary student teams identify real-world unmet healthcare needs, invent new medtech products to address them, and plan for their development into patient care. During the first quarter (winter 2016), students select and characterize an important unmet healthcare problem, validate it through primary interviews and secondary research, and then brainstorm and screen initial technology-based solutions. In the second quarter (spring 2016), teams select a lead solution and move it toward the market through prototyping, technical re-risking, strategies to address healthcare-specific requirements (regulation, reimbursement), and business planning. Final presentations in winter and spring are made to a panel of prominent medtech experts and investors. Class sessions include faculty-led instruction and case demonstrations, coaching sessions by industry specialists, expert guest lecturers, and interactive team meetings. Enrollment is by application only, and students are expected to participate in both quarters of the course. Visit http://biodesign.stanford.edu/bdn/courses/bioe374.jsp to access the application, examples of past projects, and student testimonials. More information about the Biodesign program, which has led to the creation of more than 30 venture-backed healthcare companies and has helped hundreds of student launch medtech careers, can be found at http://biodesign.stanford.edu/.
OIT536 | Data for Action: From Insights to Applications | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT536 | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Davis, S. (GP); Imbens, G. (SI) description:Data for Action is an MBA compressed course dedicated to identifying value in and creating value from data. It deals with the technical, legal, regulatory and business strategic decisions that must be considered when delivering solutions to customers.
OIT554 | Seminar on IT for Business | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT554 | instructors:Whang, S. (PI); Reid, E. (GP) description:This course offers an overview of information technologies for enterprises and supply chain management. The course has two key components - a series of guest speakers and a set of readings. Students are expected to have read the assigned note on related technologies before class, and prepare to discuss technologies with the guest speaker in class. We will not discuss the technology per se in class, so students who enroll are expected to have some exposure to technologies in order to digest the materials on their own.  The main topics of technologies are: DBMS (Database Management System), ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), EAI (Enterprise Application Interface), data mining, Big Data, cloud computing, RFID/NFC, mobile technologies, and mobile payment. In particular, students are encouraged to think hard about potential new businesses around the technology and discuss them in class.
OIT587 | Global Biodesign: Medical Technology in an International Context | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT587 | instructors:Mairal, A. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Doshi, R. (SI); Pietzsch, J. (SI); Shen, C. (SI) description:This course examines the development and commercialization of innovative medical technologies in different global settings. Faculty and guest speakers from the medtech field will discuss the status of the industry, as well as opportunities in and challenges to medical technology innovation unique to seven primary geographic regions: Africa, China, Europe, India, Japan, Latin America, and the United States. Students will be exposed to the biodesign innovation process, which provides a proven approach for identifying important unmet medical needs and inventing meaningful solutions to address them. They will also explore key differences between the covered geographies, which range from emerging markets with vast bottom-of-the-pyramid and growing middle class populations, to well-established markets with sophisticated demands and shifting demographics. The class will utilize real-world case studies and class projects to promote engagement and provide a hands-on learning experience.
OIT664 | Stochastic Networks | http://OIT664.stanford.edu | instructors:Wein, L. (PI) description:Queueing models may be used to represent service delivery systems, manufacturing processes, or data processing networks. The first half of this two-unit course consists of lectures on performance analysis (e.g., estimating congestion and delay) and control of  queueing systems using asymptotic methods, both in the traditional heavy traffic regime and in the Halfin-Whitt regime. The second half consists of student presentations of recent papers in asymptotic methods in queueing systems. Prerequisites: Statistics 217 and 218, or consent of instructor; some prior exposure to stochastic models in general, and queueing theory in particular, is useful but not essential.
OIT665 | Seminar on Information-Based Supply Chain Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT665 | instructors:Lee, H. (PI) description:This seminar will highlight the research evolution and advances on the smart use of information in supply chain management. Advances in technologies like real-time information systems, decision support methodologies, the internet and mobile technologies such as RFID (radio-frequency identification) have also enabled visibility and structural changes that result in significant supply chain performance enhancements.  In parallel to the development of new practices and concepts in industry, we will examine emerging research that are based on (1) structuring new processes and supply chain networks with the new technologies; (2) exploring ways to do planning and make decisions consequently; (3) quantifying the benefits as a result; and (4) aligning the incentives of multiple players in a supply chain when the costs and benefits to these players are different.
OIT668 | Dynamic Pricing and Revenue Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT668 | instructors:Bimpikis, K. (PI); Pham, J. (GP) description:The goal of this course is to provide a comprehensive introduction to the theory and practice of revenue management. It will comprise of a set of lectures that will cover the theoretical fundamentals of the area as well as an overview of current research developments through the presentation and discussion of recent papers. Topics include capacity control (single-resource and network), consumer behavior and market response models, dynamic pricing, procurement auctions, price experimentation, supply chain management and pricing.
OIT691 | PhD Directed Reading (ACCT 691, FINANCE 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MGTECON 691, MKTG 691, OB 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT691 | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI); Davis, S. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Khojasteh, J. (GP); Pham, J. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
OIT692 | PhD Dissertation Research (ACCT 692, FINANCE 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MGTECON 692, MKTG 692, OB 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT692 | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI); Khojasteh, J. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
OIT698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT698 | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI); Khojasteh, J. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
OIT699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT699 | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI); Aranzamendez, O. (GP); Davis, S. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Khojasteh, J. (GP); Pham, J. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
OIT802 | TGR Dissertation (ACCT 802, FINANCE 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MGTECON 802, MKTG 802, OB 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OIT802 | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI); Davis, S. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Khojasteh, J. (GP); Pham, J. (GP) description:
