7.01SC | Fundamentals of Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-01sc-fundamentals-of-biology-fall-2011 | textbook:Campbell, N. A., J.B. Reece, et al. Biology. 8th ed. Pearson Benjamin Cummings, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Eric Lander,  Robert Weinberg,  Tyler Jacks,  Hazel Sive,  Graham Walker,  Sallie Chisholm, Dr. Michelle Mischke term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:Fundamentals of Biology focuses on the basic principles of biochemistry, molecular biology, genetics, and recombinant DNA. These principles are necessary to understanding the basic mechanisms of life and anchor the biological knowledge that is required to understand many of the challenges in everyday life, from human health and disease to loss of biodiversity and environmental quality.
7.012 | Introduction to Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-012-introduction-to-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:Freeman, Scott. Biological Science. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Claudette Gardel,  Eric Lander,  Robert Weinberg,  Andrew Chess<br/>(Guest Lecturer) term:Fall 2004 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The MIT Biology Department core courses, 7.012, 7.013, and 7.014, all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as, the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material.7.012 focuses on the exploration of current research in cell biology, immunology, neurobiology, genomics, and molecular medicine.AcknowledgmentsThe study materials, problem sets, and quiz materials used during Fall 2004 for 7.012 include contributions from past instructors, teaching assistants, and other members of the MIT Biology Department affiliated with course #7.012. Since the following works have evolved over a period of many years, no single source can be attributed.
7.013 | Introductory Biology (Spring 2013) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-013-introductory-biology-spring-2013 | textbook:Campbell, N. A., J. B. Reece, et al. Campbell Biology. 9th ed. Benjamin Cummings, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:Hazel Sive,  Tyler Jacks, Dr. Diviya Sinha term:Spring 2013 features:Selected video lectures, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:The MIT Biology Department core courses, 7.012, 7.013, and 7.014, all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. 7.013 focuses on the application of the fundamental principles toward an  understanding of human biology. Topics include genetics, cell biology,  molecular biology, disease (infectious agents, inherited diseases and  cancer), developmental biology, neurobiology and evolution.Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized in all courses and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as, the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material. &nbsp;
7.013 | Introductory Biology (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-013-introductory-biology-spring-2006 | textbook:Purves, Orians, Heller, and Sadava. Life: The Science of Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates; Gordonsville, VA: W.H. Freeman and Co., 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Hazel Sive,  Tyler Jacks term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The MIT Biology Department core courses, 7.012, 7.013, and 7.014, all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as, the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material. 7.013 focuses on the application of the fundamental principles toward an understanding of human biology. Topics include genetics, cell biology, molecular biology, disease (infectious agents, inherited diseases and cancer), developmental biology, neurobiology and evolution. Acknowledgments The study materials, problem sets, and quiz materials used during Spring 2005 for 7.013 include contributions from past instructors, teaching assistants, and other members of the MIT Biology Department affiliated with course 7.013. Since the following works have evolved over a period of many years, no single source can be attributed.
7.014 | Introductory Biology (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-014-introductory-biology-spring-2005 | textbook:Freeman, Scott. Biological Science. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Graham Walker, Dr. Julia Khodor, Dr. Michelle Mischke,  Penny Chisholm term:Spring 2005 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The MIT Biology Department core courses, 7.012, 7.013, and 7.014, all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as, the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material.7.014 focuses on the application of these fundamental principles, toward an understanding of microorganisms as geochemical agents responsible for the evolution and renewal of the biosphere and of their role in human health and disease.AcknowledgementsThe study materials, problem sets, and quiz materials used during Spring 2005 for 7.014 include contributions from past instructors, teaching assistants, and other members of the MIT Biology Department affiliated with course 7.014. Since the following works have evolved over a period of many years, no single source can be attributed.
7.016 | Introductory Biology (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-016-introductory-biology-fall-2014 | textbook:Sadava, D. E., D. M. Hillis, et al. Life: The Science of Biology. 10th ed. W. H. Freeman, 2012. level:Undergraduate instructors:Barbara Imperiali,  Angelika Amon, Dr. Diviya Sinha term:Fall 2014 features:Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:7.016 Introductory Biology provides an introduction to fundamental principles of biochemistry, molecular biology and genetics for understanding the functions of living systems. Taught for the first time in Fall 2013, this course covers examples of the use of chemical biology and twenty-first-century molecular genetics in understanding human health and therapeutic intervention. The MIT Biology Department Introductory Biology courses, 7.012, 7.013, 7.014, 7.015, and 7.016 all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material. &nbsp;
7.02 | Experimental Biology & Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-02-experimental-biology-communication-spring-2005 | textbook:Purves, William K., et. al. Life: The Science of Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates; Gordonsville, VA: W. H. Freeman and Co., 2003. textbook:Maloy, Stanley R., John E. Cronan, Jr., and David Freifelder. Microbial Genetics. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 1994. textbook:Moran, Laurence A., et. al. Biochemistry. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1994. textbook:Gilbert, Scott F. Developmental Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jonathan King,  Leonard Guarente,  Lisa Steiner,  Uttam RajBhandary term:Spring 2005 features:Demonstration - video description:This introductory biology laboratory course covers the application of experimental techniques in microbiology, biochemistry, cell and developmental biology. Emphasis is placed on the integration of factual knowledge with understanding of the design of the experiments and data analysis in order to prepare the students for future research projects. Development of skills critical for writing about scientific findings in modern biology is also covered in the Scientific Communications portion of the curriculum, 7.02CI.Additional FacultyDr. Katherine Bacon SchneiderDr. Jean-Francois HamelMs. Deborah KruzelDr. Megan Rokop
7.02CI | Experimental Biology - Communications Intensive | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-02ci-experimental-biology-communications-intensive-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Marilee Ogren-Balkema, Dr. Neal Lerner term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course is the scientific communications portion of course 7.02, Experimental Biology and Communication. Students develop their skills as writers of scientific research, skills that also contribute to the learning of the 7.02 course materials. Through in class and out of class writing exercises, students explore the genre of the research article and its components while developing an understanding of the materials covered in the 7.02 laboratory.
7.03 | Genetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-03-genetics-fall-2004 | textbook:Griffiths, Anthony J. F., Jeffrey H. Miller, David T. Suzuki, Richard C. Lewontin, and William M. Gelbart. An Introduction to Genetic Analysis. 7th ed. New York: W. H. Freeman, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:Chris Kaiser,  Gerald Fink,  Leona Samson, Dr. Michelle Mischke term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course discusses the principles of genetics with application to the study of biological function at the level of molecules, cells, and multicellular organisms, including humans. The topics include: structure and function of genes, chromosomes and genomes, biological variation resulting from recombination, mutation, and selection, population genetics, use of genetic methods to analyze protein function, gene regulation and inherited disease.
7.06 | Cell Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-06-cell-biology-spring-2007 | textbook:The required textbook for this course is:  Lodish, et al. Molecular Cell Biology. 5th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Hidde Ploegh,  Terry Orr-Weaver term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course deals with the biology of cells of higher organisms: The structure, function, and biosynthesis of cellular membranes and organelles; cell growth and oncogenic transformation; transport, receptors, and cell signaling; the cytoskeleton, the extracellular matrix, and cell movements; chromatin structure and RNA synthesis.
7.08J | Biological Chemistry II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-08j-biological-chemistry-ii-spring-2004 | textbook:Readings by lecture session (L#) are listed in the table below. Many of the readings are from the required textbook:  Voet, D., J. Voet. Biochemistry. New York: J. Wiley & Sons, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:JoAnne Stubbe,  Alice Ting term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course deals with a more advanced treatment of the biochemical mechanisms that underlie biological processes. Emphasis will be given&nbsp;to the experimental methods used to unravel how these processes fit into the cellular context as well as the coordinated regulation of these processes. Topics include macromolecular machines for energy and force transduction, regulation of biosynthetic and degradative pathways, and the structure and function of nucleic acids.
7.13 | Experimental Microbial Genetics (Fall 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-13-experimental-microbial-genetics-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dianne Newman, Dr. Janis Melvold, Dr. Laura Croal,  Michael Laub term:Fall 2008 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:In this class, students engage in independent research projects to probe various aspects of the physiology of the bacterium&nbsp;Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA14, an opportunistic pathogen isolated from the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Students use molecular genetics to examine survival in stationary phase, antibiotic resistance, phase variation, toxin production, and secondary metabolite production.Projects aim to discover the molecular basis for these processes using both classical and cutting-edge techniques. These include plasmid manipulation, genetic complementation, mutagenesis, PCR, DNA sequencing, enzyme assays, and gene expression studies. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication are also emphasized.WARNING NOTICEThe experiments described in these materials are potentially hazardous and require a high level of safety training, special facilities and equipment, and supervision by appropriate individuals. You bear the sole responsibility, liability, and risk for the implementation of such safety procedures and measures. MIT shall have no responsibility, liability, or risk for the content or implementation of any of the material presented.Legal Notice
7.13 | Experimental Microbial Genetics (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-13-experimental-microbial-genetics-fall-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Janis Melvold, Dr. Philip Lessard,  Anthony Sinskey term:Fall 2003 features:Projects and examples description:Also referred to as the Microbial Genetics Project Lab, this is a hands-on research course designed to introduce the student to the strategies and challenges associated with microbiology research. Students take on independent and original research projects that are designed to be instructive with the goal of advancing a specific field of research in microbiology.
7.15 | Experimental Molecular Genetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-15-experimental-molecular-genetics-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jing-Ke Weng, Dr. Nelly Cruz term:Spring 2015 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This project-based laboratory course provides students with in-depth experience in experimental molecular genetics, using modern methods of molecular biology and genetics to conduct original research. The course is geared towards students (including sophomores) who have a strong interest in a future career in biomedical research. This semester will focus on chemical genetics using Caenorhabditis elegans as a model system. Students will gain experience in research rationale and methods, as well as training in the planning, execution, and communication of experimental biology. WARNING NOTICE The experiments described in these materials are potentially hazardous and require a high level of safety training, special facilities and equipment, and supervision by appropriate individuals. You bear the sole responsibility, liability, and risk for the implementation of such safety procedures and measures. MIT shall have no responsibility, liability, or risk for the content or implementation of any of the material presented.  Legal Notice
7.16 | Experimental Molecular Biology: Biotechnology II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-16-experimental-molecular-biology-biotechnology-ii-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Sabatini, Dr. Marilee Ogren-Balkema, Dr. Alice Rushforth term:Spring 2005 features:Demonstration - video description:The course applies molecular biology and reverse genetics approaches to the study of apoptosis, or programmed cell death (PCD), in Drosophila cells. RNA interference (RNAi), or double stranded RNA-mediated gene silencing, will be used to inhibit expression of candidate apoptosis-related genes in cultured Drosophila cells. Teams of 2 or 3 students will design and carry out experiments to address questions about the genes involved in the regulation and execution of PCD in this system. Some projects involve the use of DNA damaging agents or other cytotoxic chemicals or drugs to help understand the pathways that control a cell's decision to undergo apoptosis. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication are provided.
7.18 | Topics in Experimental Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-18-topics-in-experimental-biology-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Karen Pepper, Dr. Leslie Ann Roldan,  Paul T. Matsudaira,  Anthony Sinskey term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This independent experimental study course is designed to allow students with a strong interest in independent research to fulfill the project laboratory requirement for the Biology Department Program in the context of a research laboratory at MIT. The research should be a continuation of a previous project under the direction of a member of the Biology Department faculty.This course provides instruction and practice in written and oral communication. Journal club discussions are used to help students evaluate and write scientific papers.
7.22 | Developmental Biology (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-22-developmental-biology-fall-2005 | textbook:Wolpert, Lewis. Principles of Development. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Kalthoff, Klaus. Analysis of Biological Development. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill, 2001. textbook:Slack, J. M. W. Essential Developmental Biology. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 2001. textbook:Gerhart, John, and Marc Kirschner. Cells, Embryos, and Evolution: Toward a Cellular and Developmental Understanding of Phenotypic Variation and Evolutionary Adaptability. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 1997. textbook:Russo, V. E. A., et al., eds. Development: Genetics, Epigenetics, and Environmental Regulation. New York, NY: Springer, 1999. textbook:Arias, Alfonso Martinez, and Alison Stewart. Molecular Principles of Animal Development. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Rao, Mahendra S., and Marcus Jacobson, eds. Developmental Neurobiology. 4th ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Hazel Sive,  Martha Constantine-Paton term:Fall 2005 features:Assignments and solutions description:This graduate and advanced undergraduate level lecture and literature discussion course covers the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms that regulate animal development. Evolutionary mechanisms are emphasized as well as the discussion of relevant diseases. Vertebrate (mouse, chick, frog, fish) and invertebrate (fly, worm) models are covered. Specific topics include formation of early body plan, cell type determination, organogenesis, morphogenesis, stem cells, cloning, and issues in human development.
7.27 | Principles of Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-27-principles-of-human-disease-spring-2006 | textbook:Janeway, Charles A., Jr., Paul Travers, Mark Walport, and Mark J. Shlomchik. Immunobiology. 5th ed. New York, NY: Garland Publishing, 2001. textbook:Strachan, Tom, and Andrew P. Read. Human Molecular Genetics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons Inc., 1999. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Housman,  Jacqueline Lees term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course covers current understanding of, and modern approaches to human disease, emphasizing the molecular and cellular basis of both genetic disease and cancer. Topics include: The Genetics of Simple and Complex Traits; Karyotypic Analysis and Positional Cloning; Genetic Diagnosis; The Roles of Oncogenes and Tumor Suppressors in Tumor Initiation, Progression, and Treatment; The Interaction between Genetics and Environment; Animal Models of Human Disease; Cancer; and Conventional and Gene Therapy Treatment Strategies.
7.28 | Molecular Biology (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-28-molecular-biology-spring-2005 | textbook:Watson, James D., Tania A. Baker, Stephen P. Bell, Alexander Gann, Michael Levine, Richard Losick. Molecular Biology of the Gene. 5th ed. San Francisco, CA: Pearson/Benjamin Cummings, 2003. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Biology Department Faculty term:Spring 2005 features:Exams and solutions description:This course covers a detailed analysis of the biochemical mechanisms that control the maintenance, expression, and evolution of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes. The topics covered in lectures and readings of relevant literature include gene regulation, DNA replication, genetic recombination, and mRNA translation. In particular, the logic of experimental design and data analysis is emphasized.
7.29J | Cellular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-29j-cellular-neurobiology-spring-2012 | textbook:[Squire] =  Squire, L. R., D. Berg, et al. Fundamental Neuroscience. 3rd ed. Academic Press, 2008. textbook:[Kandel] =  Kandel, Eric R., James H. Schwartz, and Thomas M. Jessell, eds. Principles of Neural Science. 4th ed. McGraw-Hill, Health Professions Division, 2000. textbook:[Nicholls] =  Nicholls, John G. From Neuron to Brain. Sinauer Associates, 2011. level:Undergraduate instructors:Troy Littleton,  William Quinn term:Spring 2012 features: description:This course serves as an introduction to the structure and function of the nervous system. Emphasis is placed on the cellular properties of neurons and other excitable cells. Topics covered include the structure and biophysical properties of excitable cells, synaptic transmission, neurochemistry, neurodevelopment, and the integration of information in simple systems and the visual system.
7.30J | Ecology I: The Earth System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-018j-ecology-i-the-earth-system-fall-2009 | textbook:Remmert, Hermann. "Ecology: the Basic Concept." In Ecology. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag Berlin, 1980. textbook:Morton, Oliver. "Introduction." In Eating the Sun. London, UK: Fourth Estate, 2008, pp. xi-xix. level:Undergraduate instructors:Edward DeLong,  Penny Chisholm term:Fall 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:We will cover fundamentals of ecology, considering Earth as an integrated dynamic system. Topics include coevolution of the biosphere, geosphere, atmosphere and oceans; photosynthesis and respiration; the hydrologic, carbon and nitrogen cycles. We will examine the flow of energy and materials through ecosystems; regulation of the distribution and abundance of organisms; structure and function of ecosystems, including evolution and natural selection; metabolic diversity; productivity; trophic dynamics; models of population growth, competition, mutualism and predation. This course is designated as Communication-Intensive; instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Biology is a recommended prerequisite.
7.32 | Systems Biology (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2014 | textbook:[UA] =  Alon, U. An Introduction to Systems Biology: Design Principles of Biological Circuits. Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2006. textbook:[MN] =  Nowak, M. A. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Belknap Press, 2006. textbook:[BA] =  Alberts, B., et al. Essential Cell Biology. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 2009. textbook:[SS] =  Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Westview Press, 2014. textbook:Edelstein-Keshet, L. Sections 6.2, 6.6, and 6.7 in Mathematical Models in Biology. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an introduction to cellular and population-level systems biology with an emphasis on synthetic biology, modeling of genetic networks, cell-cell interactions, and evolutionary dynamics. Cellular systems include genetic switches and oscillators, network motifs, genetic network evolution, and cellular decision-making. Population-level systems include models of pattern formation, cell-cell communication, and evolutionary systems biology.
7.340 | Unusual Biology: The Science of Emerging Pathogens | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-unusual-biology-the-science-of-emerging-pathogens-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ana Camejo, Dr. Daniel Gold term:Spring 2013 features: description:Infectious diseases represent a serious global public health problem. They have the potential to kill millions of people, whether they emerge naturally as outbreaks or pandemics, or deliberately through bioterrorism. Some examples of diseases caused by emerging pathogens are the Bubonic Plague, Toxoplasmosis, African Sleeping Sickness, and Chagas Disease. Each day, infectious disease scientists serve on the front lines protecting us from such threats.  In this course students will learn how to design and critique experiments through the discussion of primary research articles that explore the molecular basis of disease caused by emerging pathogens. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Regenerative Medicine: from Bench to Bedside | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-regenerative-medicine-from-bench-to-bedside-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Petra Simic term:Spring 2010 features: description:Regenerative medicine involves the repair and regeneration of tissues for therapeutic purposes, such as replacing bone marrow in leukemia, cartilage in osteoarthritis or cells of the heart after a heart attack. In this course, we will explore basic mechanisms of how cells differentiate into specific tissues in response to a variety of biologic signaling molecules. We will discuss the use of such factors for in vitro tissue production. We will also study the cellular mechanisms involved in the cloning of animals and how Scottish researchers produced the sheep Dolly using the nucleus of a mammary gland cell from an adult sheep. We will read papers describing organ production, such as the in vitro formation of beating heart cells. We will also consider the molecular bases of cellular tissue remodeling to correct these changes. We will discuss how studies of the developmental, cellular and molecular biology of regeneration have led to the discovery of new drugs. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars  offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Learning and Memory: Activity-Controlled Gene Expression in the Nervous System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-learning-and-memory-activity-controlled-gene-expression-in-the-nervous-system-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sven Loebrich term:Fall 2009 features: description:The mammalian brain easily outperforms any computer. It adapts and changes constantly. Most importantly, the brain enables us to continuously learn and remember. What are the molecular mechanisms that lead to learning and memory? What are the cellular roles that activity-regulated gene products play to implement changes in the brain?How do nerve cells, their connections (synapses), and brain circuits change over time to store information? We will discuss the molecular mechanisms of neuronal plasticity at the synaptic, cellular and circuit levels, especiallysynapse formation,synaptic growth and stabilization,synaptic transmission,axonal and dendritic outgrowth, andcircuit formationWe will learn about the roles of some activity-regulated genes as well as the tools and techniques employed in modern neuroscience. Our goal will be to understand molecular mechanisms the brain employs to accomplish learning and memory.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Under the Radar Screen: How Bugs Trick Our Immune Defenses | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-under-the-radar-screen-how-bugs-trick-our-immune-defenses-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Gijsbert Grotenbreg, Dr. Marie-Eve Paquet term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course, we will explore the specific ways by which microbes defeat our immune system and the molecular mechanisms that are under attack (phagocytosis, the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway, MHC I/II antigen presentation). Through our discussion and dissection of the primary research literature, we will explore aspects of host-pathogen interactions. We will particularly emphasize the experimental techniques used in the field and how to read and understand research data. Technological advances in the fight against microbes will also be discussed, with specific examples. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Avoiding Genomic Instability: DNA Replication, the Cell Cycle, and Cancer | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-avoiding-genomic-instability-dna-replication-the-cell-cycle-and-cancer-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. John Randell, Dr. Robyn Tanny term:Fall 2006 features: description:In this class we will learn about how the process of DNA replication is regulated throughout the cell cycle and what happens when DNA replication goes awry. How does the cell know when and where to begin replicating its DNA? How does a cell prevent its DNA from being replicated more than once? How does damaged DNA cause the cell to arrest DNA replication until that damage has been repaired? And how is the duplication of the genome coordinated with other essential processes? We will examine both classical and current papers from the scientific literature to provide answers to these questions and to gain insights into how biologists have approached such problems. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Nano-life: An Introduction to Virus Structure and Assembly | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-nano-life-an-introduction-to-virus-structure-and-assembly-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Melissa Kosinski-Collins, Dr. Peter Weigele term:Fall 2005 features: description:Watson and Crick noted that the size of a viral genome was insufficient to encode a protein large enough to encapsidate it and reasoned, therefore that a virus shell must be composed of multiple, but identical subunits. Today, high resolution structures of virus capsids reveal the basis of this genetic economy as a highly symmetrical structure, much like a geodesic dome composed of protein subunits. Crystallographic structures and cryo-electron microscopy reconstructions combined with molecular data are beginning to reveal how these nano-structures are built. Topics covered in the course will include basic principles of virus structure and symmetry, capsid assembly, strategies for enclosing nucleic acid, proteins involved in entry and exit, and the life cycles of well understood pathogens such as HIV, influenza, polio, and Herpes. A review of cutting edge structural methods is also covered. This course is one of many Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.340 | Ubiquitination: The Proteasome and Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-ubiquitination-the-proteasome-and-human-disease-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Marta Rubio term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. This seminar provides a deeper understanding of the post-translational mechanisms evolved by eukaryotic cells to target proteins for degradation. Students learn how proteins are recognized and degraded by specific machinery (the proteasome) through their previous tagging with another small protein, ubiquitin. Additional topics include principles of ubiquitin-proteasome function, its control of the most important cellular pathways, and the implication of this system in different human diseases. Finally, speculation on the novel techniques that arose from an increased knowledge of the ubiquitin-proteosome system and current applications in the design of new pharmacological agents to battle disease is also covered.
7.340 | Immune Evasion: How Sneaky Pathogens Avoid Host Surveillance | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-immune-evasion-how-sneaky-pathogens-avoid-host-surveillance-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Dina Gould Halme term:Spring 2004 features: description:Every infection consists of a battle between the invading pathogen and the resisting host. To be successful, a pathogen must escape the many defenses of the host immune system until it can replicate and spread to another host. A pathogen must prevent one of three stages of immune function: detection, activation, or effector function. Examples of disease-specific immune evasion and the mechanisms used by pathogens to prevail over their hosts' immune systems are discussed. Also considered is what these host-pathogen interactions reveal about the normal function of the immune system and basic cell biological processes, such as protein maturation and degradation.
7.341 | Of Mice and Men: Humanized Mice in Cancer Research | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-of-mice-and-men-humanized-mice-in-cancer-research-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Mandeep Kaur term:Spring 2015 features:Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course will act as an introduction to the latest developments in the fields of cancer biology and immunotherapy. Almost everyone knows someone whose life has been affected by cancer. Why is cancer such a difficult disease to treat? What is the best system to model the development of a human tumor? How can new treatment modalities, especially immune-based therapies that harness the natural ability of immune cells to kill target cells, be developed to treat cancer? These and other questions will be addressed in this course. We will explore the concepts of mouse models for human cancer, humanized cancer mice and cancer immunotherapy by reading recent and classic research articles.  This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.341 | Designer Immunity: Lessons in Engineering the Immune System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-designer-immunity-lessons-in-engineering-the-immune-system-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Gregory Szeto, Dr. Talar Tokatlian term:Spring 2014 features:This Course at MIT description:The immune system is one of the most complex and powerful of human body systems. It is highly dynamic and flexible, yet strictly regulates homeostasis and protects our bodies from both foreign and self-derived challenges. As basic understanding of immune function is growing, researchers are rapidly designing clever and diverse strategies to manipulate immunology to improve human health. In this course, we will explore important advances rooted in engineering principles to harness the power of the immune system, focusing on how engineering has fueled or inspired research concerning (1) vaccines, (2) immunotherapies, and (3) systems immunology. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.341 | Harnessing the Biosphere: Natural Products and Biotechnology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-harnessing-the-biosphere-natural-products-and-biotechnology-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Christopher J. Brigham, Dr. Jens K. Plassmeier term:Fall 2012 features: description:What do the organisms of the biosphere, specifically microorganisms, have to offer to biotechnological endeavors? In this course we will focus on the production of biomolecules using microbial systems. We will discuss potential growth substrates (such as agricultural waste and carbon dioxide) that can be used and learn about both established and cutting-edge manipulation techniques in the field of synthetic biology. We will also cover the production of biofuels, bioplastics, amino acids (e.g. lysine), food additives (e.g. monosodium glutamate, MSG), specialty chemicals (e.g. succinate), and biopharmaceuticals (e.g. plasmids for gene therapy). This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.341 | Bench to Bedside: Molecularly Targeted Therapies in Blood Disorders and Malignancy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-bench-to-bedside-molecularly-targeted-therapies-in-blood-disorders-and-malignancy-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Johan Flygare, Dr. Bill Wong term:Fall 2009 features: description:Where do new drugs and treatments come from? This class will take you from the test tubes and mice of the laboratory to the treatment of patients with deadly blood disorders. Students will learn how to think as a scientist through discussion of primary research papers describing the discoveries of several novel treatments. Topics such as gene therapy, the potential of drugs based on RNA interference and the reprogramming of somatic cells into stem cells for regenerative medicine will be discussed. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.341 | The DNA Damage Response as a Target for Anti-Cancer Therapy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-the-dna-damage-response-as-a-target-for-anti-cancer-therapy-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Hans Christian Reinhardt term:Fall 2008 features: description:Cellular responses to DNA damage constitute one of the most important fields in cancer biology. In this class we will analyze classical and recent papers from the primary research literature to gain a profound understand of cell cycle regulation and DNA damage checkpoints that act as powerful emergency brakes to prevent cancer. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.341 | Brightening up Life: Harnessing the Power of Fluorescence Imaging to Observe Biology in Action | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-brightening-up-life-harnessing-the-power-of-fluorescence-imaging-to-observe-biology-in-action-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Mark Howarth, Dr. Anthony Leung term:Fall 2006 features: description:One summer in the 1960s a young Japanese researcher, with the help of a few high school students, chopped up ten thousand jellyfish. As a by-product of this harvest, they isolated a green fluorescent protein (GFP). Since then, GFP has triggered a revolution in our understanding of gene expression and signaling in live cells. In this seminar, we will examine how this small protein generates fluorescence, i.e. absorbs light of one wavelength and emits light of a longer wavelength. We will discuss how the color palette has been extended from green to blue, red and many other colors, based on protein engineering of GFP and the study of vividly colorful coral reefs. We will then investigate how these fluorescent proteins can be used to track the motion of DNA, RNA and protein in living cells, as well as to see waves of signaling molecules propagate across a cell. GFP is also a powerful tool for fluorescent imaging of whole organisms, from worms to mice, and we will see how it has been used in tracking the spread of cancer cells, controlling malaria and in understanding how neuronal connections form. In this seminar, we will explore this wonderful protein as well as other important methods and reagents for fluorescent imaging. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Pluripotent Stem Cells and Genome Engineering for Modeling Human Diseases | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-pluripotent-stem-cells-and-genome-engineering-for-modeling-human-diseases-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Malkiel Cohen, Dr. Katherine Wert term:Spring 2015 features:This Course at MIT description:One of the major priorities in biomedical research is understanding the molecular events that establish the complex processes involved in human development and the relationships of these processes to human disease and disease progression. In this class, we will explore stem cell biology and the way in which it has developed and shaped our ability to study complex human disease. We will introduce the field of stem cell biology and genome engineering through critical reading of both the classical and newest primary research literature. In addition, this course will discuss specific disease model systems and their benefits / limitations for understanding the disease and treating human patients. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Sweet Discoveries: Unraveling the Complex World of Sugars in Health and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-sweet-discoveries-unraveling-the-complex-world-of-sugars-in-health-and-disease-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Julie M Silverman, Dr. Maria Walvoort term:Fall 2014 features: description:Glycans, which are complex assemblies of sugars, are the most prevalent class of macromolecules, surpassing nucleic acids, proteins and lipids. Glycans are essential for life, as they are a required energy source, provide protection against cellular stresses and shape cellular structure. During this course, we will explore the many roles glycans play in human health and disease. For example, we will learn about the healthy glycosylation patterns of many mammalian proteins and the dynamic changes that glycan structures undergo during early development and cancer metastasis, the influence of dietary carbohydrates on glycan metabolism, and the role of densely glycosylated proteins involved in HIV infectivity. Concurrently, we will learn about the chemical and biological techniques used to detect and visualize glycans by in vitro and whole-animal metabolic labeling approaches, how to profile protein-glycan interactions using high-throughput glycan arrays, and about the development of new carbohydrate-based therapeutics and vaccines to target HIV, influenza and bacterial pathogens. The course will focus on the primary research literature, and we will learn practical laboratory techniques, experimental design and how to interpret data and critique the conclusions offered by authors.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Personal Genomics and Medicine: What's in Your Genome? | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-personal-genomics-and-medicine-whats-in-your-genome-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:A. Zara Herskovits term:Spring 2014 features: description:Human genome sequencing has revolutionized our understanding of disease susceptibility, drug metabolism and human ancestry. This course will explore how these advances have been made possible by revolutionary new sequencing methodologies that have decreased costs and increased throughput of genome analysis, making it possible to examine genetic correlates for a variety of biological processes and disorders. The course will combine discussions of primary scientific research papers with hands-on data analysis and small group presentations. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Cell-material Crosstalk: Engineering Cell-Instructive Biomaterials | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-cell-material-crosstalk-engineering-cell-instructive-biomaterials-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Danya Lavin,  Matthew Webber term:Fall 2013 features: description:Biomaterials are substances that have been designed to direct the course of any therapeutic or diagnostic procedure by controlling interactions with biological systems. A large toolbox of non-biological materials has been engineered to study cell behavior at the cell-material interface. In this course, we will examine how this interface can be leveraged to study cellular systems and generate novel therapeutics. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | To Divide or Not To Divide: Control of Cell Cycle and Growth by Extracellular Cues | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-to-divide-or-not-to-divide-control-of-cell-cycle-and-growth-by-extracellular-cues-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Folkert van  Werven, Dr. Alexi Goranov term:Fall 2012 features: description:Cells, regardless of whether they are in an organ in the human body or a component of a bacterial colony, can sense the chemical composition of the environment, the presence of neighboring cells, and even the types of their neighboring cells. Depending on the identity of a cell and the information it receives from its environment, it can grow (increase in size), proliferate (make more cells), become quiescent (stop growing and dividing), differentiate (make different types of cells), or die. How cells achieve the astonishing feat of appropriately sensing and responding to their environment has been a major question in biology. In this course we will read and critically discuss the primary scientific literature with the goal of highlighting the basic principles of cell growth, adaptation, and differentiation. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | The Biology of Aging: Age-Related Diseases and Interventions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-the-biology-of-aging-age-related-diseases-and-interventions-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Dudley W. Lamming, Dr. Eric L. Bell term:Fall 2011 features: description:Aging involves an intrinsic and progressive decline in function that eventually will affect us all. While everyone is familiar with aging, many basic questions about aging are mysterious. Why are older people more likely to experience diseases like cancer, stroke, and neurodegenerative disorders? What changes happen at the molecular and cellular levels to cause the changes that we associate with old age? Is aging itself a disease, and can we successfully intervene in the aging process?This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Powerhouse Rules: The Role of Mitochondria in Human Diseases | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-powerhouse-rules-the-role-of-mitochondria-in-human-diseases-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Daniel Ferullo term:Spring 2011 features: description:The primary role of mitochondria is to produce 90% of a cell's energy in the form of ATP through a process called oxidative phosphorylation. A variety of clinical disorders have been shown to include &quot;mitochondrial dysfunction,&quot; which loosely refers to defective oxidative phosphorylation and usually coincides with the occurrence of excess Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) production, placing cells under oxidative stress.  A known cause and effect of oxidative stress is damage to and mutation of mitochondrial DNA.  We will use this class to explore issues relating to mitochondrial DNA integrity and how it can be damaged, repaired, mutated, and compromised in human diseases. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Systems and Synthetic Biology:  How the Cell Solves Problems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-systems-and-synthetic-biology-how-the-cell-solves-problems-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Hyun Youk term:Fall 2010 features: description:A millennial challenge in biology is to decipher how vast arrays of molecular interactions inside the cell work in concert to produce a cellular function. Systems biology, a new interdisciplinary field of science, brings together biologists and physicists to tackle this grand challenge through quantitative experiments and models. In this course, we will discuss the unifying principles that all organisms use to perform cellular functions. We will also discuss key challenges faced by a cell in both single and multi-cellular organisms. Finally, we will discuss how researchers in the field of synthetic biology are using the new knowledge gained from studying naturally-occurring biological systems to create artificial gene networks capable of performing new functions. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | The X in Sex: A Genetic, Medical, and Evolutionary View of the X Chromosome | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-the-x-in-sex-a-genetic-medical-and-evolutionary-view-of-the-x-chromosome-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Jacob Mueller term:Fall 2009 features: description:This course will explore a diverse collection of striking biological phenomena associated with the X chromosome. We will examine the genetic basis and significance of several X-linked mutations. We will also discuss why men are more likely than women to display X-linked traits. We will look at the different mechanisms by which X chromosome gene expression is equalized in mammals, flies, and worms and how these mechanisms can yield unusual phenotypes. Throughout our discussions of the X chromosome we will use both recent and classic primary research papers to learn about this chromosome's fascinating biology. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Systems Biology: Stochastic Processes and Biological Robustness | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-systems-biology-stochastic-processes-and-biological-robustness-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jeff Gore, Dr. Arjun Raj term:Fall 2008 features: description:In this seminar, we will discuss some of the main themes that have arisen in the field of systems biology, including the concepts of robustness, stochastic cell-to-cell variability, and the evolution of molecular interactions within complex networks. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Developmental and Molecular Biology of Regeneration | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-developmental-and-molecular-biology-of-regeneration-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Christian Petersen term:Spring 2008 features: description:How does a regenerating animal &quot;know&quot; what's missing? How are stem cells or differentiated cells used to create new tissues during regeneration? In this class we will take a comparative approach to explore this fascinating problem by critically examining classic and modern scientific literature about the developmental and molecular biology of regeneration. We will learn about conserved developmental pathways that are necessary for regeneration, and we will discuss the relevance of these findings for regenerative medicine. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Chronic Infection and Inflammation: What are the Consequences on Your Health? | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-chronic-infection-and-inflammation-what-are-the-consequences-on-your-health-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Eva Frickel, Dr. Sara Gredmark term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course we will explore the new emerging field of pathogen-induced chronic diseases. Work in this field has redefined the causes of some major disorders, such as ulcers. By reading the primary research literature we will learn about the molecular mechanisms through which pathogens cause disease. The diseases that we cover will be introduced with a short patient case study. We will discuss the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and gastric disease, HPV and cervical cancer, hepatitis C virus and liver disease, Epstein-Barr virus and lymphoma, Cytomegalovirus and atherosclerosis, as well as diabetes and multiple sclerosis. We will study technical advances in the fight against microbes and explore future directions for new treatment strategies of chronic infections and inflammation. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | G-Protein Coupled Receptors: Vision and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-g-protein-coupled-receptors-vision-and-disease-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Parvathi Kota term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:How do we communicate with the outside world? How are our senses of vision, smell, taste and pain controlled at the cellular and molecular levels? What causes medical conditions like allergies, hypertension, depression, obesity and various central nervous system disorders? G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) provide a major part of the answer to all of these questions. GPCRs constitute the largest family of cell-surface receptors and in humans are encoded by more than 1,000 genes. GPCRs convert extracellular messages into intracellular responses and are involved in essentially all physiological processes. GPCR dysfunction results in numerous human disorders, and over 50% of all prescription drugs on the market today directly or indirectly target GPCRs. In this course, we will discuss GPCR signal transduction pathways, GPCR oligomerization and the diseases caused by GPCR dysfunction. We will study the structure and function of rhodopsin, a dim-light photoreceptor and a well-studied GPCR that converts light into electric impulses sent to the brain and leads to vision. We will also discuss how mutations in rhodopsin cause retinal degeneration and congenital night blindness. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Reading the Blueprint of Life:  Transcription, Stem Cells and Differentiation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-reading-the-blueprint-of-life-transcription-stem-cells-and-differentiation-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Matthew Guenther, Dr. Roshan Kumar term:Fall 2006 features: description:In this course, we will address how transcriptional regulators both prohibit and drive differentiation during the course of development. How does a stem cell know when to remain a stem cell and when to become a specific cell type? Are there global differences in the way the genome is read in multipotent and terminally differentiated cells? We will explore how stem cell pluripotency is preserved, how master regulators of cell-fate decisions execute developmental programs, and how chromatin regulators control undifferentiated versus differentiated states. Additionally, we will discuss how aberrant regulation of transcriptional regulators produces disorders such as developmental defects and cancer.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Cancer Biology: From Basic Research to the Clinic | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-cancer-biology-from-basic-research-to-the-clinic-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Carla Kim, Dr. Kevin Haigis term:Fall 2004 features: description:This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. In 1971, President Nixon declared the &quot;War on Cancer,&quot; but after three decades the war is still raging. How much progress have we made toward winning the war and what are we doing to improve the fight? Understanding the molecular and cellular events involved in tumor formation, progression, and metastasis is crucial to the development of innovative therapy for cancer patients. Insights into these processes have been gleaned through basic research using biochemical, molecular, and genetic analysis in yeast, C. elegans, mice, and cell culture models. We will explore the laboratory tools and techniques used to perform cancer research, major discoveries in cancer biology, and the medical implications of these breakthroughs. A focus of the class will be critical analysis of the primary literature to foster understanding of the strengths and limitations of various approaches to cancer research. Special attention will be made to the clinical implications of cancer research performed in model organisms and the prospects for ending the battle with this devastating disease.
7.343 | An RNA Safari: Exploring the Surprising Diversity of Mammalian Transcriptomes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-an-rna-safari-exploring-the-surprising-diversity-of-mammalian-transcriptomes-spring-2016 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Athma Pai, Dr. Matthew Taliaferro term:Spring 2016 features: description:The aim of this class is to introduce the exciting and often under appreciated discoveries in RNA biology by exploring the diversity of RNAs&mdash;encompassing classical molecules such as ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs), transfer RNAs (tRNAs) and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) as well as newer species, such as microRNAs (miRNAs), long-noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), and circular RNAs (circRNAs). For each new class of RNA, we will evaluate the evidence for its existence as well as for its proposed function. Students will develop both a deep understanding of the field of RNA biology and the ability to critically assess new papers in this fast-paced field.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Biological Bases of Learning and Memory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-biological-bases-of-learning-and-memory-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Lauren A. Makuch, Dr. Jaichandar Subramanian term:Spring 2014 features:This Course at MIT description:How does the brain come to learn whether a stimulus is annoying, rewarding or neutral? How does remembering how to ride a bicycle differ from remembering scenes from a movie? In this course, students will explore the concept that learning and memory have a physical basis that can be observed as biochemical, physiological and/or morphological changes to neural tissue. Our goal will be to understand the strategies and techniques biologists use to search for the memory trace: the &quot;holy grail&quot; of modern neuroscience. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Network Medicine: Using Systems Biology and Signaling Networks to Create Novel Cancer Therapeutics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-network-medicine-using-systems-biology-and-signaling-networks-to-create-novel-cancer-therapeutics-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Michael Lee term:Fall 2012 features: description:In this course, we will survey the primary systems biology literature, particularly as it pertains to understanding and treating various forms of cancer. We will consider various computational and experimental techniques being used in the field of systems biology, focusing on how systems principles have helped advance biological understanding. We will also discuss the application of the principles of systems biology and network biology to drug development, an emerging discipline called &quot;network medicine.&quot; This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | When Development Goes Awry: How Cancer Co-opts Mechanisms of Embryogensis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-when-development-goes-awry-how-cancer-co-opts-mechanisms-of-embryogensis-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Etienne Meylan, Dr. Trudy Oliver term:Fall 2009 features: description:During this course, we will study the similarities between cancer and normal development to understand how tumors co-opt normal developmental processes to facilitate cancer initiation, maintenance and progression. We will examine critical signaling pathways that govern these processes and, importantly, how some of these pathways hold promise as therapeutic targets for cancer treatment. We will discuss how future treatments might be personalized to target cancer cells in specific patients. We will also consider examples of newly-approved drugs that have dramatically helped patients combat this devastating disease. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Sophisticated Survival Skills of Simple Microorganisms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-sophisticated-survival-skills-of-simple-microorganisms-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Adrienne Dolberry term:Spring 2008 features: description:In this course, we will discuss the microbial physiology and genetics of stress responses in aquatic ecosystems, astrobiology, bacterial pathogenesis and other environments. We will learn about classical and novel methods utilized by researchers to uncover bacterial mechanisms induced under both general and environment-specific stresses. Finally, we will compare and contrast models for bacterial stress responses to gain an understanding of distinct mechanisms of survival and of why there are differences among bacterial genera. This course is one of many Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.343 | The Radical Consequences of Respiration: Reactive Oxygen Species in Aging and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-the-radical-consequences-of-respiration-reactive-oxygen-species-in-aging-and-disease-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Priyamvada Rai term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course&nbsp;will start with a survey of basic oxygen radical biochemistry followed by a discussion of the mechanisms of action of cellular as well as dietary antioxidants. After considering the normal physiological roles of oxidants, we will examine the effects of elevated ROS and a failure of cellular redox capacity on the rate of organismal and cellular aging as well as on the onset and progression of several major diseases that are often age-related. Topics will include ROS-induced effects on stem cell regeneration, insulin resistance, heart disease, neurodegenerative disorders, and cancer. The role of antioxidants in potential therapeutic strategies for modulating ROS levels will also be discussed. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Neuron-glial Cell Interactions in Biology and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-neuron-glial-cell-interactions-in-biology-and-disease-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Bikem Akten term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:The main goal of this seminar will be to study the nervous system from the perspective of neuron-glia interactions. In each class, we will focus on one type of glial cell and discuss its origin, classification and function within the nervous system. Current findings concerning diseases associated with each type of glial cell will be discussed. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Photosynthesis: Life from Light | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-photosynthesis-life-from-light-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Peter Weigele, Dr. Yongting Wang term:Fall 2006 features: description:In this course, you will journey through the web of physical, chemical, and biological reactions that collectively constitute photosynthesis. We will begin with light harvesting and follow photons to the sites of primary photochemistry: the photoreaction centers. A molecular-scale view will show in atomic detail how these protein complexes capture and energize electrons. Then we will follow the multiple pathways electrons take as they carry out their work. Consequent reactions, such as the synthesis of ATP and the reduction of CO2 during the synthesis of carbohydrates, will also be discussed in structural detail. Lastly, we will delve into the evolution of these systems and also discuss other photosynthetic strategies, such as light-driven proton pumps and anoxygenic photosynthesis. The course will include a visit to an electron microscope to allow students to directly observe proteins involved in photosynthesis. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | A Love-Hate Relationship: Cholesterol in Health and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-a-love-hate-relationship-cholesterol-in-health-and-disease-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ayce Yesilaltay term:Fall 2005 features: description:In this class, we will examine cholesterol's role in the cell and in the body as a whole, from its function as a structural component of the membrane to its function in signaling. We will discuss mechanisms of cholesterol sensing, mechanisms of feedback regulation in cells, cholesterol in the brain, cholesterol in the circulation, 'good cholesterol' and 'bad cholesterol,' cholesterol-related human disorders, and the drugs that deal with some of these disorders. This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Protein Folding, Misfolding and Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-protein-folding-misfolding-and-human-disease-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Melissa Kosinski-Collins term:Fall 2004 features: description:This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. The instructor for this course, Dr. Kosinski-Collins, is a member of the HHMI Education Group. Maintenance of the complex three-dimensional structure adopted by a protein in the cell is vital for function. Oftentimes, as a consequence of environmental stress, genetic mutation, and/or infection, the folded structure of a protein gets altered and multiple proteins stick and fall out of solution in a process known as aggregation. In many protein aggregation diseases, incorrectly folded proteins self-associate, forming fiber-like aggregates that cause brain cell death and dementia. In this course, the molecular and biochemical basis of the prion diseases, which include bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad cow disease), Creutzfedt-Jakob disease and kuru will be examined. Also discussed are other classes of misfolding diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. The proteins involved in all of these disorders and how the proteins' three dimensional structures change during the course of these afflictions is covered as well as why prions from certain species cannot infect animals from other species based on protein sequence and structure. The course will then address possible detection methods and therapies that are under development to treat some of the protein aggregation diseases.
7.344 | Treating Infertility-- From Bench to Bedside and Bedside to Bench | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-treating-infertility-from-bench-to-bedside-and-bedside-to-bench-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Jana Hersch, Dr. Michelle Carmell term:Spring 2015 features: description:In the western world, approximately 10&ndash;15% of couples suffer from subfertility. Consequently, over 5 million babies have been born thanks to assisted reproductive technologies, and more than half of those have been born in the past six years alone. This class will cover the basic biology behind fertility and explore the etiology of infertility.  We will highlight open questions in reproductive biology, familiarize students with both tried-and-true and emerging reproductive technologies, and explore the advantages and pitfalls of each. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | Tumor Suppressor Gene p53: How the Guardian of our Genome Prevents Cancer | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-tumor-suppressor-gene-p53-how-the-guardian-of-our-genome-prevents-cancer-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Wen Xue term:Fall 2010 features: description:Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide. Cancer involves uncontrolled cell growth, resistance to cell death, failure to differentiate into a particular cell type, and increased cellular motility. A family of gate-keeper genes, known as tumor suppressor genes, plays important roles in preventing the initiation and progression of cancer. Among these, p53 is the most famous. Because of its essential role in maintaining genomic integrity, p53 is often called the guardian of the genome. During this course, we will study how p53 serves as a pivotal tumor suppressor gene in preventing cancer.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | Directed Evolution: Engineering Biocatalysts | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-directed-evolution-engineering-biocatalysts-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Kerry Love term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes description:Directed evolution has been used to produce enzymes with many unique properties. The technique of directed evolution comprises two essential steps: mutagenesis of the gene encoding the enzyme to produce a library of variants, and selection of a particular variant based on its desirable catalytic properties. In this course we will examine what kinds of enzymes are worth evolving and the strategies used for library generation and enzyme selection. We will focus on those enzymes that are used in the synthesis of drugs and in biotechnological applications. This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | The Fountain of Life: From Dolly to Customized Embryonic Stem Cells | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-the-fountain-of-life-from-dolly-to-customized-embryonic-stem-cells-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Alexander Meissner term:Fall 2007 features: description:During development, the genetic content of each cell remains, with a few exceptions, identical to that of the zygote. Most differentiated cells therefore retain all of the genetic information necessary to generate an entire organism. It was through pioneering technology of somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) that this concept was experimentally proven. Only 10 years ago the sheep Dolly was the first mammal to be cloned from an adult organism, demonstrating that the differentiated state of a mammalian cell can be fully reversible to a pluripotent embryonic state. A key conclusion from these experiments was that the difference between pluripotent cells such as embryonic stem (ES) cells and unipotent differentiated cells is solely a consequence of reversible changes. These changes, which have proved to involve reversible alterations to both DNA and to proteins that bind DNA, are known as epigenetic, to distinguish them from genetic alterations to DNA sequence. In this course we will explore such epigenetic changes and study different approaches that can return a differentiated cell to an embryonic state in a process referred to as epigenetic reprogramming, which will ultimately allow generation of patient-specific stem cells and application to regenerative therapy. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | Antibiotics, Toxins, and Protein Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-antibiotics-toxins-and-protein-engineering-spring-2007 | textbook:Berg, Jeremy, John Tymoczko, and Lubert Stryer. Biochemistry. 5th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 2006, chapter 29. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Caroline Koehrer, Dr. Mandana Sassanfar term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:The lethal poison Ricin (best known as a weapon of bioterrorism), Diphtheria toxin (the causative agent of a highly contagious bacterial disease), and the widely used antibiotic tetracycline have one thing in common: They specifically target the cell's translational apparatus and disrupt protein synthesis. In this course, we will explore the mechanisms of action of toxins and antibiotics, their roles in everyday medicine, and the emergence and spread of drug resistance. We will also discuss the identification of new drug targets and how we can manipulate the protein synthesis machinery to provide powerful tools for protein engineering and potential new treatments for patients with devastating diseases, such as cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | RNA Interference: A New Tool for Genetic Analysis and Therapeutics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-rna-interference-a-new-tool-for-genetic-analysis-and-therapeutics-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Stephane Kissler, Dr. Andrea Ventura term:Fall 2004 features: description:This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. To understand and treat any disease with a genetic basis or predisposition, scientists and clinicians need effective ways of manipulating the levels of genes and gene products. Conventional methods for the genetic modification of many experimental organisms are technically demanding and time consuming. Just over 5 years ago, a new mechanism of gene-silencing, termed RNA interference (RNAi), was discovered. In addition to being a fascinating biological process, RNAi provides a revolutionary technology that has already changed the way biomedical research is done and that may even prove useful for genetic interventions in a clinical context. In this course, students learn how RNAi was discovered, how it works, and what its physiological relevance might be. How RNAi can be harnessed to modulate gene expression and perform genetic screens, both in cells and in various organisms is also covered. Finally, this course examines the first attempts to use RNAi for the treatment of models of human diseases in experimental animals.
7.345 | The War on Superbugs: Antibiotic Development and the Emergence of Drug-Resistant Bacteria | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-the-war-on-superbugs-antibiotic-development-and-the-emergence-of-drug-resistant-bacteria-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Julie M Silverman, Dr. Monika Musial-Siwek term:Fall 2015 features: description:Bacteria and fungi have produced antibiotics, small molecules that can prevent the growth of or kill bacteria by inhibiting essential biological pathways, as a defense mechanism long before humans walked the earth. The discovery of antibiotics and their implementation in the clinic radically changed modern medicine, saving countless lives by treating infections that were once difficult to cure, such as syphilis, strep throat and tuberculosis. During this course, we will cover many aspects of antibiotics including techniques used to discover these inhibitors, their mode of action and use in medicine. For example, we will learn about the techniques used to discover antibiotics, such as penicillin and vancomycin. We will discuss antibiotic-resistant bacteria and the molecular mechanisms underlying resistance, including horizontal gene transfer, point mutations and efflux pumps. Additionally, we will learn about pioneering work to treat infections with engineered antimicrobial peptides and microbiome replacement therapies. The course will focus on the primary research literature, and we will learn practical laboratory techniques, experimental design and how to interpret data and critique the conclusions offered by authors. Students will have the opportunity to visit a local hospital to learn about the process of treatment with antibiotics and what is being done to avoid the continuous emergence of antibiotic resistance.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | The Science of Sperm | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-the-science-of-sperm-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Bluma (Bibi) Lesch, Dr. Renee George term:Fall 2014 features: description:Sperm are tiny, haploid cells with a supremely important job: They deliver the paternal genome to the egg, helping create a zygote that develops into a new individual. For a human male, however, only a small fraction of the sperm produced will ever fertilize an egg. Sperm thus experience intense selective pressure: They must compete against each other, navigate a foreign environment in the female reproductive tract, and interact specifically and appropriately with the surface of the egg. These selective pressures can drive extreme changes in morphology and gene function over short evolutionary time scales, resulting in amazing diversity among species. In this course, we will explore the ways in which these unique evolutionary forces contribute to incredible specializations of sperm form and function, including hook-shaped heads and multiple tails. Students will learn from the primary research literature with an emphasis on rigorously interpreting experimental data and critiquing analyses and conclusions. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | Using Simple Organisms to Model Human Diseases | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-using-simple-organisms-to-model-human-diseases-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Katie Harris term:Spring 2013 features: description:How do scientists discover the basic biology underlying human diseases? Simple organisms such as baker&rsquo;s yeast, nematodes, fruit flies, zebrafish, mice and rats have allowed biologists to investigate disease at multiple levels, from molecules to behavior. In this course students will learn strategies of disease modeling by critically reading and discussing primary research articles. We will explore current models of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson&rsquo;s disease, childhood genetic diseases such as Fragile X syndrome, as well as models of deafness and wound healing. Our goal will be to understand the strategies biologists use to build appropriate models of human disease and to appreciate both the power and limitations of using simple organisms to analyze human disease. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | Non-coding RNAs: Junk or Critical Regulators in Health and Disease? | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-non-coding-rnas-junk-or-critical-regulators-in-health-and-disease-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Nadya Dimitrova, Dr. Thales Papagiannakopoulos term:Spring 2012 features: description:Every time we scientists think that we have dissected the precise biological nature of a process, an incidental finding, a brilliantly designed experiment, or an unexpected result can turn our world upside down. Until recently thought by many to be cellular &quot;junk&quot; because they do not encode proteins, non-coding RNAs are gaining a growing recognition for their roles in the regulation of a wide scope of processes, ranging from embryogenesis and development to cancer and degenerative disorders. The aim of this class is to introduce the diversity of the RNA world, inhabited by microRNAs, lincRNAs, piRNAs, and many others. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | Survival in Extreme Conditions: The Bacterial Stress Response | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-survival-in-extreme-conditions-the-bacterial-stress-response-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Celeste Peterson term:Fall 2010 features: description:Bacteria survive in almost all environments on Earth, including some considered extremely harsh. From the steaming hot springs of Yellowstone to the frozen tundra of the arctic to the barren deserts of Chile, microbes have been found thriving. Their tenacity to survive in such extreme and varied conditions allows them to play fundamental roles in global nutrient cycling. Microbes also cause a wide range of human diseases and can survive inhospitable conditions found in the human body. In this course, we will examine the molecular systems that bacteria use to adapt to changes in their environment. We will consider stresses commonly encountered, such as starvation, oxidative stress and heat shock, and also discuss how the adaptive responses affect the evolution of the bacteria.  This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | Vascular Development in Life, Disease and Cancer Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-vascular-development-in-life-disease-and-cancer-medicine-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Alexandra Naba, Dr. Christopher Turner term:Fall 2009 features: description:The growth of blood vessels, a process known as angiogenesis, is one of the earliest events in mammalian development and is regulated by a sensitive interplay of growth factors and other molecules. In this course, we will discuss the key molecular regulators of blood vessel development as well as the techniques and experimental systems that have been utilized by vascular biologists. We will also examine the success of several anti-angiogenic treatments that have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), that inhibit the pro-angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor, VEGF, and that are now being used to treat age-related macular degeneration. Finally, we will explore how during the course of cancer progression, establishment of a blood supply into a tumor can lead to the growth and spread of cancer cells to secondary sites. We will discuss the caveats and potential pitfalls of targeting tumor blood vessels to starve cancer cells and prevent the spread of cancer, which remains one of the leading causes of death in the USA. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | Evolution of the Immune System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-evolution-of-the-immune-system-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Nadia Danilova term:Spring 2005 features: description:In this course, evolutionary pathways that have led to the development of innate and adaptive immunity are analyzed, the conserved and unique features of the immune response from bacteria to higher vertebrates is traced, and factors, such as adaptive changes in pathogens that have shaped the evolution of immune system are identified.This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.346 | Fine-Tuning the Synapse: Synaptic Functions and Dysfunction | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-fine-tuning-the-synapse-synaptic-functions-and-dysfunction-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Abhishek Banerjee, Dr. Richard Cho term:Fall 2014 features: description:The synapse is the fundamental element by which neurons transmit, receive and transform information in the brain. Synapses are functionally diverse, and a single neuron in the brain receives up to 10,000 synapses. Given the enormous complexity of the nervous system, how does a neuron integrate, encode and retrieve information? How is information processed beyond a single cell within the context of a neuronal circuit? Fundamental synaptic mechanisms underlie expression of higher-order brain functions, such as learning and memory, and cognition. Conversely, the disruption of synaptic processes contributes to the development of neurological disorders. In this course, students will learn to critically analyze the primary research literature to explore how synapses are studied and to understand how synapses integrate information to perform higher-order behavior. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.346 | DNA Wars: How the Cell Strikes Back to Avoid Disease after Attacks on DNA | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-dna-wars-how-the-cell-strikes-back-to-avoid-disease-after-attacks-on-dna-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jennifer Jordan,  Zachary Nagel term:Fall 2013 features: description:A never-ending molecular war takes place in the nucleus of your cells, with DNA damage occurring at a rate of over 20,000 lesions per cell per day. Where does this damage come from, and what are its consequences? What are the differences in the molecular blueprint between individuals who can sustain attacks on DNA and remain healthy compared to those who become sick?  This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.346 | Virus-host Interactions in Infectious Diseases | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-virus-host-interactions-in-infectious-diseases-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sumana Sanyal, Dr. Joseph Ashour term:Spring 2013 features:This Course at MIT description:Co-evolution and adaptation between viruses and humans are often portrayed as a zero-sum biological arms race. Viruses enter host cells equipped with an array of mechanisms to evade the host defense responses and replicate. The rapid rate of mutation of viruses permits evolution of various methodologies for infection, which in turn drive development of non-specific but highly effective host mechanisms to restrict infection. This class will discuss the varied solutions each side has developed as a means for survival. We will use examples drawn from human disease-causing pathogens that contribute seriously to the global health burden, including HIV, influenza and dengue virus. Primary research papers will be discussed to help students learn to pose scientific questions and design and conduct experiments to answer the questions and critically interpret data. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.346 | Cellular Garbage Disposal: Misfolded Proteins in Normal Biology and Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-cellular-garbage-disposal-misfolded-proteins-in-normal-biology-and-human-disease-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sumana Sanyal term:Fall 2011 features: description:The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) orchestrates different cellular processes by which proteins are synthesized, correctly folded, modified and ultimately transported to their final destinations. As part of this crucial biosynthetic process, proteins that are not properly folded and consequently detrimental to normal cellular function are constantly generated. A common signature of many neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, is accumulation and deposition of misfolded proteins that arise when the ability of cells to deal with the burden of misfolded proteins is compromised. In this course, we will explore how the ER quality control machinery ensures that only properly assembled proteins exit the ER while distinguishing between nascent proteins en route to their biologically active folded state from those that are terminally misfolded.
7.346 | RNAi: A Revolution in Biology and Therapeutics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-rnai-a-revolution-in-biology-and-therapeutics-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Allan Gurtan, Dr. Michael Goldberg term:Spring 2010 features: description:Despite centuries of effort, modern medicine still struggles to find the source of disease and to provide specific treatment without side effects. Both traditional small molecules and protein-based therapeutics have achieved only limited success. What is the next therapeutic frontier? The answer may be RNA interference. In this course, we will focus on the therapeutic potential of RNAi. We will discuss its discovery functions in normal biological processes, utility as an experimental tool, potential for therapeutic use, and pursuit by the biotechnology industry. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.346 | Synaptic Plasticity and Memory, from Molecules to Behavior | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-synaptic-plasticity-and-memory-from-molecules-to-behavior-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ariel Kamsler term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course we will discover how innovative technologies combined with profound hypotheses have given rise to our current understanding of neuroscience. We will study both new and classical primary research papers with a focus on the plasticity between synapses in a brain structure called the hippocampus, which is believed to underlie the ability to create and retrieve certain classes of memories. We will discuss the basic electrical properties of neurons and how they fire. We will see how firing properties can change with experience, and we will study the biochemical basis of these changes. We will learn how molecular biology can be used to specifically change the biochemical properties of brain circuits, and we will see how these circuits form a representation of space giving rise to complex behaviors in living animals. A special emphasis will be given to understanding why specific experiments were done and how to design experiments that will answer the questions you have about the brain. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.347 | Peptides as Biological Signaling Molecules and Novel Drugs | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-347-peptides-as-biological-signaling-molecules-and-novel-drugs-spring-2016 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Mohammed Shabab term:Spring 2016 features: description:How do we sense hunger? How do we sense pain? What causes growth in our bodies? How are we protected from pathogens? The answer to many of these questions involves small polymers of amino acids known as peptides. Peptides are broadly used as signal molecules for intercellular communication in prokaryotes, plants, fungi, and animals. Peptide signals in animals include vast numbers of peptide hormones, growth factors and neuropeptides. In this course, we will learn about molecular bases of peptide signaling. In addition, peptides potentially can be used as potent broad-spectrum antibiotics and hence might define novel therapeutic agents. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.347 | Living Dangerously: How the Immune System Maintains Peace with Trillions of Commensal Bacteria while Preventing Pathogenic Invasions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-347-living-dangerously-how-the-immune-system-maintains-peace-with-trillions-of-commensal-bacteria-while-preventing-pathogenic-invasions-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Matthias Truttmann, Dr. Angelina Bilate term:Fall 2015 features: description:In this course, we will examine how the immune system acts to destroy pathogenic invaders while tolerating colonization by necessary commensal bacteria. As a counterpoint, we will also explore sophisticated strategies that help some bacteria evade our immune system. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.347 | Epigenetic Regulation of Stem Cells | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-347-epigenetic-regulation-of-stem-cells-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Eric Williams, Dr. Vidya Subramanian term:Spring 2014 features:This Course at MIT description:During development a single totipotent cell gives rise to the vast array of cell types present in the adult human body, yet each cell has essentially the same DNA sequence. As cells differentiate, distinct sets of genes must be coordinately activated and repressed, ultimately leading to a cell-type specific pattern of gene expression and a particular cell fate. In eukaryotic organisms, DNA is packaged in a complex protein super structure known as chromatin. Modification and reorganization of chromatin play a critical role in coordinating the cell-type specific gene expression programs that are required as a cell transitions from a pluripotent stem cell to a fully differentiated cell type. Epigenetics refers to such heritable changes that occur in chromatin without altering the primary DNA sequence. This class will focus on the role of epigenetic regulation with respect to developmental fate and also consider the fact that the epigenetic mechanisms discussed have broad implications, including how seemingly normal cells can be transformed into cancerous cells. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.347 | Fueling Sustainability: Engineering Microbial Systems for Biofuel Production | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-347-fueling-sustainability-engineering-microbial-systems-for-biofuel-production-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Michelle O'Malley term:Spring 2011 features: description:The need to identify sustainable forms of energy as an alternative to our dependence on depleting worldwide oil reserves is one of the grand challenges of our time. The energy from the sun converted into plant biomass is the most promising renewable resource available to humanity. This seminar will examine each of the critical steps along the pathway towards the conversion of plant biomass into ethanol. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.349 | Stem Cells: A Cure or Disease? | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-349-stem-cells-a-cure-or-disease-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Steve Bilodeau, Dr. Grant Welstead term:Spring 2011 features: description:Have you ever considered going to a pharmacy to order some new cardiomyocytes (heart muscle cells) for your ailing heart?  It might sound crazy, but recent developments in stem cell science have made this concept not so futuristic. In this course, we will explore the underlying biology behind the idea of using stem cells to treat disease, specifically analyzing the mechanisms that enable a single genome to encode multiple cell states ranging from neurons to fibroblasts to T cells. Overall, we hope to provide a comprehensive overview of this exciting new field of research and its clinical relevance. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars   offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.349 | From Molecules to Behavior:  Synaptic Neurophysiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-349-from-molecules-to-behavior-synaptic-neurophysiology-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Alex Chubykin term:Spring 2010 features: description:Like transistors in a computer, synapses perform complex computations and connect the brain's non-linear processing elements (neurons) into a functional circuit. Understanding the role of synapses in neuronal computation is essential to understanding how the brain works. In this course students will be introduced to cutting-edge research in the field of synaptic neurophysiology. The course will cover such topics as synapse formation, synaptic function, synaptic plasticity, the roles of synapses in higher cognitive processes and how synaptic dysfunction can lead to disease. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.349 | Biological Computing: At the Crossroads of Engineering and Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-349-biological-computing-at-the-crossroads-of-engineering-and-science-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Julia Khodor term:Spring 2005 features: description:Imagine you are a salesman needing to visit 100 cities connected by a set of roads. Can you do it while stopping in each city only once? Even a supercomputer working at 1 trillion operations per second would take longer than the age of the universe to find a solution when considering each possibility in turn. In 1994, Leonard Adleman published a paper in which he described a solution, using the tools of molecular biology, for a smaller 7-city example of this problem. His paper generated enormous scientific and public interest, and kick-started the field of Biological Computing, the main subject of this discussion based seminar course. Students will analyze the Adleman paper, and the papers that preceded and followed it, with an eye for identifying the engineering and scientific aspects of each paper, emphasizing the interplay of these two approaches in the field of Biological Computing. This course is appropriate for both biology and non-biology majors. Care will be taken to fill in any knowledge gaps for both scientists and engineers.This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.36J | Foundations of Computational and Systems Biology (Spring 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-91j-foundations-of-computational-and-systems-biology-spring-2014 | textbook:This textbook is recommended for the course: Zvelebil, Marketa J., and Jeremy O. Baum. Understanding Bioinformatics. Garland Science, 2007. textbook:Broman, Karl W., and Saunak Sen. "Single–QTL Analysis." Chapter 4 in A Guide to QTL Mapping with R/qtl. Springer, 2009. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Gifford,  Ernest Fraenkel term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to computational biology emphasizing the fundamentals of nucleic acid and protein sequence and structural analysis; it also includes an introduction to the analysis of complex biological systems. Topics covered in the course include principles and methods used for sequence alignment, motif finding, structural modeling, structure prediction and network modeling, as well as currently emerging research areas.
7.38J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
7.391 | Concept-Centered Teaching (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-391-concept-centered-teaching-spring-2006 | textbook:Morgan, Elisa. Bio2010: Transforming Undergraduate Education for Future Research Biologists. National Academy of Sciences. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2003. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Dr. Melissa Kosinski-Collins term:Spring 2006 features: description:Do you like teaching, but find yourself frustrated by how little students seem to learn? Would you like to try teaching, but are nervous about whether you will be any good at it? Are you interested in new research on science education? Research in science education shows that the greatest obstacle to student learning is the failure to identify and confront the misconceptions with which the students enter the class or those that they acquire during their studies. This weekly seminar course focuses on developing the participants' ability to uncover and confront student misconceptions and to foster student understanding and retention of key concepts. Participants read primary literature on science education, uncover basic concepts often overlooked when teaching biology, and lead a small weekly discussion session for students currently enrolled in introductory biology classes. The instructor for this course, Dr. Kosinski-Collins, is a member of the HHMI Education Group.
7.391 | Concept-Centered Teaching (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-391-concept-centered-teaching-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Dr. Julia Khodor term:Fall 2005 features: description:Do you like teaching, but find yourself frustrated by how little students seem to learn? Would you like to try teaching, but are nervous about whether you will be any good at it? Are you interested in new research on science education? Research in science education shows that the greatest obstacle to student learning is the failure to identify and confront the misconceptions with which the students enter the class or those that they acquire during their studies. This weekly seminar course focuses on developing the participants' ability to uncover and confront student misconceptions and to foster student understanding and retention of key concepts. Participants read primary literature on science education, uncover basic concepts often overlooked when teaching biology, and lead a small weekly discussion session for students currently enrolled in introductory biology classes. The instructor for this course, Dr. Julia Khodor, is a member of the HHMI Education Group.
7.58 | Molecular Biology (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-28-molecular-biology-spring-2005 | textbook:Watson, James D., Tania A. Baker, Stephen P. Bell, Alexander Gann, Michael Levine, Richard Losick. Molecular Biology of the Gene. 5th ed. San Francisco, CA: Pearson/Benjamin Cummings, 2003. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Biology Department Faculty term:Spring 2005 features:Exams and solutions description:This course covers a detailed analysis of the biochemical mechanisms that control the maintenance, expression, and evolution of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes. The topics covered in lectures and readings of relevant literature include gene regulation, DNA replication, genetic recombination, and mRNA translation. In particular, the logic of experimental design and data analysis is emphasized.
7.66J | Cognitive & Behavioral Genetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-19j-cognitive-behavioral-genetics-spring-2001 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi,  Steven Pinker term:Spring 2001 features: description:How genetics can add to our understanding of cognition, language, emotion, personality, and behavior. Use of gene mapping to estimate risk factors for psychological disorders and variation in behavioral and personality traits. Mendelian genetics, genetic mapping techniques, and statistical analysis of large populations and their application to particular studies in behavioral genetics. Topics also include environmental influence on genetic programs, evolutionary genetics, and the larger scientific, social, ethical, and philosophical implications.
7.72 | Developmental Biology (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-22-developmental-biology-fall-2005 | textbook:Wolpert, Lewis. Principles of Development. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Kalthoff, Klaus. Analysis of Biological Development. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill, 2001. textbook:Slack, J. M. W. Essential Developmental Biology. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 2001. textbook:Gerhart, John, and Marc Kirschner. Cells, Embryos, and Evolution: Toward a Cellular and Developmental Understanding of Phenotypic Variation and Evolutionary Adaptability. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 1997. textbook:Russo, V. E. A., et al., eds. Development: Genetics, Epigenetics, and Environmental Regulation. New York, NY: Springer, 1999. textbook:Arias, Alfonso Martinez, and Alison Stewart. Molecular Principles of Animal Development. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Rao, Mahendra S., and Marcus Jacobson, eds. Developmental Neurobiology. 4th ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Hazel Sive,  Martha Constantine-Paton term:Fall 2005 features:Assignments and solutions description:This graduate and advanced undergraduate level lecture and literature discussion course covers the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms that regulate animal development. Evolutionary mechanisms are emphasized as well as the discussion of relevant diseases. Vertebrate (mouse, chick, frog, fish) and invertebrate (fly, worm) models are covered. Specific topics include formation of early body plan, cell type determination, organogenesis, morphogenesis, stem cells, cloning, and issues in human development.
7.81J | Systems Biology (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2014 | textbook:[UA] =  Alon, U. An Introduction to Systems Biology: Design Principles of Biological Circuits. Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2006. textbook:[MN] =  Nowak, M. A. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Belknap Press, 2006. textbook:[BA] =  Alberts, B., et al. Essential Cell Biology. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 2009. textbook:[SS] =  Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Westview Press, 2014. textbook:Edelstein-Keshet, L. Sections 6.2, 6.6, and 6.7 in Mathematical Models in Biology. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an introduction to cellular and population-level systems biology with an emphasis on synthetic biology, modeling of genetic networks, cell-cell interactions, and evolutionary dynamics. Cellular systems include genetic switches and oscillators, network motifs, genetic network evolution, and cellular decision-making. Population-level systems include models of pattern formation, cell-cell communication, and evolutionary systems biology.
7.931 | Concept-Centered Teaching (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-391-concept-centered-teaching-spring-2006 | textbook:Morgan, Elisa. Bio2010: Transforming Undergraduate Education for Future Research Biologists. National Academy of Sciences. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2003. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Dr. Melissa Kosinski-Collins term:Spring 2006 features: description:Do you like teaching, but find yourself frustrated by how little students seem to learn? Would you like to try teaching, but are nervous about whether you will be any good at it? Are you interested in new research on science education? Research in science education shows that the greatest obstacle to student learning is the failure to identify and confront the misconceptions with which the students enter the class or those that they acquire during their studies. This weekly seminar course focuses on developing the participants' ability to uncover and confront student misconceptions and to foster student understanding and retention of key concepts. Participants read primary literature on science education, uncover basic concepts often overlooked when teaching biology, and lead a small weekly discussion session for students currently enrolled in introductory biology classes. The instructor for this course, Dr. Kosinski-Collins, is a member of the HHMI Education Group.
7.931 | Concept-Centered Teaching (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-391-concept-centered-teaching-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Dr. Julia Khodor term:Fall 2005 features: description:Do you like teaching, but find yourself frustrated by how little students seem to learn? Would you like to try teaching, but are nervous about whether you will be any good at it? Are you interested in new research on science education? Research in science education shows that the greatest obstacle to student learning is the failure to identify and confront the misconceptions with which the students enter the class or those that they acquire during their studies. This weekly seminar course focuses on developing the participants' ability to uncover and confront student misconceptions and to foster student understanding and retention of key concepts. Participants read primary literature on science education, uncover basic concepts often overlooked when teaching biology, and lead a small weekly discussion session for students currently enrolled in introductory biology classes. The instructor for this course, Dr. Julia Khodor, is a member of the HHMI Education Group.
7.A12 | Freshman Seminar: Structural Basis of Genetic Material: Nucleic Acids | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-a12-freshman-seminar-structural-basis-of-genetic-material-nucleic-acids-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Shuguang Zhang term:Fall 2005 features: description:Since the discovery of the structure of the DNA double helix in 1953 by Watson and Crick, the information on detailed molecular structures of DNA and RNA, namely, the foundation of genetic material, has expanded rapidly. This discovery is the beginning of the "Big Bang" of molecular biology and biotechnology. In this seminar, students discuss, from a historical perspective and current developments, the importance of pursuing the detailed structural basis of genetic materials.
7.51 | Graduate Biochemistry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-51-graduate-biochemistry-fall-2001 | textbook:Creighton, T. E. Proteins: Structure and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1992. textbook:Fersht, Alan. Enzyme Structure and Mechanism. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1985. textbook:Kyte, Jack. Mechanism in Protein Chemistry. New York, NY: Routledge, 1995. textbook:———. Structure in Protein Chemistry. New York, NY: Routledge, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Bob Sauer,  Frank Solomon,  Tania Baker term:Fall 2001 features:Selected lecture notes description:The tools and analytical methods that biochemists use to dissect biological problems. Analysis of the mode of action and structure of regulatory, binding, and catalytic proteins.
7.547J | Principles and Practice of Drug Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-136j-principles-and-practice-of-drug-development-fall-2013 | textbook:Rang, H. P., ed. Chapters 1–3 in Drug Discovery and Development: Technology in Transition. Churchill Livingstone, 2006, pp. 3–40. level:Graduate instructors:Charles Cooney,  Stan Finkelstein, MD, Dr. G. K. Raju,  Anthony Sinskey term:Fall 2013 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course serves as a description and critical assessment of the major issues and stages of developing a pharmaceutical or biopharmaceutical. Topics covered include drug discovery, preclinical development, clinical investigation, manufacturing and regulatory issues considered for small and large molecules, and economic and financial considerations of the drug development process. A multidisciplinary perspective is provided by the faculty, who represent clinical, life, and management sciences. Various industry guests also participate.
7.548J | Perspectives in Biological Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-400j-perspectives-in-biological-engineering-spring-2006 | textbook:Lodish, Harvey, Matthew P. Scott, Paul Matsudaira, James Darnell, Lawrence Zipursky, Chris A. Kaiser, Arnold Berk, and Monty Krieger. Molecular Cell Biology. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Douglas Lauffenburger,  Peter Dedon term:Spring 2006 features: description:This seminar-format course provides an in-depth presentation and discussion of how engineering and biological approaches can be combined to solve problems in science and technology, emphasizing integration of biological information and methodologies with engineering analysis, synthesis, and design. Emphasis is placed on molecular mechanisms underlying cellular processes, including signal transduction, gene expression networks, and functional responses.
7.59J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
7.59J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Fall 2012) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-fall-2012 | textbook:[WM] =  McKeachie, W. J., et al. Teaching Tips: Strategies, Research, and Theory for College and University Teachers. 9th ed. D.C. Health & Co., 1994. textbook:[PW/FO] =  Wankat, P. C., and F. S. Oreovicz. Teaching Engineering. McGraw-Hill, 1992. textbook:[BGD] =  Davis, B. Gross. Tools for Teaching. Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1993. textbook:Bok, Derek. "The Evolution of American Colleges," and "Purposes." In Our Underachieving Colleges: A Candid Look at How Much Students Learn and Why they Should be Learning More. Princeton University Press, 2005, pp. 11–30. textbook:Hooks, Bell. Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of Freedom. Routledge Press, 1994, pp. 1–12. textbook:Seymour, E., and N. M. Hewitt. Talking about Leaving: Why Undergraduates Leave the Sciences. Westview Press, 2000, pp. 13–9, 33, 145–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "Week 7-Students as Learners." In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semeseter of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008, pp. 153–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "The Syllabus." Chapter 0 in On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Lang, J. M. "In the Classroom: Lectures." Chapter 3 In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Tauber, R.T., and C. Sargent Mester. Acting Lessons for Teachers: Using Performance Skills in the Classroom. Praeger, 2006. textbook:Halpern, B. L., and K. Lubar. Leadership Presence: Dramatic Techniques to Reach Out, Motivate and Inspire. Gotham, 2003. textbook:Alfeld, Peter. How to Solve It: A New Aspect of Mathematical Method. Summary of G. Polya. 2nd ed. Department of Mathematics, University of Utah. Princeton University Press, 1973. textbook:Barad, Karen. "A Feminist Approach to Teaching Quantum Physics." Chapter 2 in Teaching the Majority: Breaking the Gender Barrier in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering. Edited by S. Rosser. Teachers College Press, 1995, pp. 43–75. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Janet Rankin term:Fall 2012 features:This Course at MIT description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Topics include theories of adult learning; course development; promoting active learning, problem-solving, and critical thinking in students; communicating with a diverse student body; using educational technology to further learning; lecturing; creating effective tests and assignments; and assessment and evaluation. Students research and present a relevant topic of particular interest. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
7.60 | Cell Biology: Structure and Functions of the Nucleus | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-60-cell-biology-structure-and-functions-of-the-nucleus-spring-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Phillip Sharp,  Richard Young term:Spring 2010 features: description:The goal of this course is to teach both the fundamentals of nuclear cell biology as well as the methodological and experimental approaches upon which they are based. Lectures and class discussions will cover the background and fundamental findings in a particular area of nuclear cell biology. The assigned readings will provide concrete examples of the experimental approaches and logic used to establish these findings. Some examples of topics include genome and systems biology, transcription, and gene expression.
7.67J | Genetic Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-322j-genetic-neurobiology-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Troy Littleton,  William Quinn term:Fall 2005 features: description:This course deals with the specific functions of neurons, the interactions of neurons in development, and the organization of neuronal ensembles to produce behavior. Topics covered include the analysis of mutations, and molecular analysis of the genes required for nervous system function. In particular, this course focuses on research work done with nematodes, fruit flies, mice, and humans.
7.68J | Cell and Molecular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-013j-cell-and-molecular-neurobiology-spring-2008 | textbook:Levitan, Irwin B., and Leonard K. Kaczmarek. The Neuron: Cell & Molecular Biology. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Martha Constantine-Paton,  Morgan Sheng,  William Quinn term:Spring 2008 features: description:This course explores the major areas of cellular and molecular neurobiology, including excitable cells and membranes, ion channels and receptors, synaptic transmission, cell-type determination, axon guidance, neuronal cell biology, neurotrophin signaling and cell survival, synapse formation and neural plasticity. Material includes lectures and exams, and involves presentation and discussion of primary literature. It focuses on major concepts and recent advances in experimental neuroscience.
7.69J | Developmental Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-18-developmental-neurobiology-spring-2005 | textbook:Levi-Motalcini, R. "NGF: An Uncharted Route." In The Neurosciences: Paths of Discovery. Edited by Frederic Worden, Judith P. Swazey and George Adelman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1975. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi term:Spring 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course considers molecular control of neural specification, formation of neuronal connections, construction of neural systems, and the contributions of experience to shaping brain structure and function. Topics include: neural induction and pattern formation, cell lineage and fate determination, neuronal migration, axon guidance, synapse formation and stabilization, activity-dependent development and critical periods, development of behavior.
7.74J | Topics in Biophysics and Physical Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-416j-topics-in-biophysics-and-physical-biology-fall-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Mark Bathe,  Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides broad exposure to research in biophysics and physical biology, with emphasis on the critical evaluation of scientific literature. Weekly meetings include in-depth discussion of scientific literature led by various MIT faculty on active research topics. Each session also includes a brief discussion of non-research topics including effective presentation skills, writing papers and fellowship proposals, choosing scientific and technical research topics, time management, and scientific ethics.
7.81J | Systems Biology (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:The following sections from  Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York: Garland Science, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Alexander van Oudenaarden term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course introduces the mathematical modeling techniques needed to address key questions in modern biology. An overview of modeling techniques in molecular biology and genetics, cell biology and developmental biology is covered. Key experiments that validate mathematical models are also discussed, as well as molecular, cellular, and developmental systems biology, bacterial chemotaxis, genetic oscillators, control theory and genetic networks, and gradient sensing systems. Additional specific topics include: constructing and modeling of genetic networks, lambda phage as a genetic switch, synthetic genetic switches, circadian rhythms, reaction diffusion equations, local activation and global inhibition models, center finding networks, general pattern formation models, modeling cell-cell communication, quorum sensing, and finally, models for Drosophila development.
7.88J | Protein Folding and Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-88j-protein-folding-and-human-disease-spring-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Jonathan King term:Spring 2015 features:Projects (no examples) description:This course covers amino acid sequence control of protein folding, misfolding, amyloid polymerization and aggregation. Readings and discussions address topics such as chaperone structure and function, folding and assembly of fibrous proteins, and pathologies associated with protein misfolding and aggregation in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's and other protein deposition diseases. Students are required to write and present a research paper.
7.89J | Topics in Computational and Systems Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-89j-topics-in-computational-and-systems-biology-fall-2010 | textbook:Benjamini, Eli, Richard Coico, and Geoffrey Sunshine. Chapters 1, 7, and 17 in Immunology: A Short Course. 5th ed. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  Jeff Gore,  Wendy Gilbert,  Bruce Tidor,  Forest White term:Fall 2010 features: description:This is a seminar based on research literature. Papers covered are selected to illustrate important problems and approaches in the field of computational and systems biology, and provide students a framework from which to evaluate new developments. The MIT Initiative in Computational and Systems Biology (CSBi) is a campus-wide research and education program that links biology, engineering, and computer science in a multidisciplinary approach to the systematic analysis and modeling of complex biological phenomena. This course is one of a series of core subjects offered through the CSB Ph.D. program, for students with an interest in interdisciplinary training and research in the area of computational and systems biology.
7.90J | Computational Functional Genomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-90j-computational-functional-genomics-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:David Gifford,  Tommi Jaakkola term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:The course focuses on casting contemporary problems in systems biology and functional genomics in computational terms and providing appropriate tools and methods to solve them. Topics include genome structure and function, transcriptional regulation, and stem cell biology in particular; measurement technologies such as microarrays (expression, protein-DNA interactions, chromatin structure); statistical data analysis, predictive and causal inference, and experiment design. The emphasis is on coupling problem structures (biological questions) with appropriate computational approaches.
7.91J | Foundations of Computational and Systems Biology (Spring 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-91j-foundations-of-computational-and-systems-biology-spring-2014 | textbook:This textbook is recommended for the course: Zvelebil, Marketa J., and Jeremy O. Baum. Understanding Bioinformatics. Garland Science, 2007. textbook:Broman, Karl W., and Saunak Sen. "Single–QTL Analysis." Chapter 4 in A Guide to QTL Mapping with R/qtl. Springer, 2009. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Gifford,  Ernest Fraenkel term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to computational biology emphasizing the fundamentals of nucleic acid and protein sequence and structural analysis; it also includes an introduction to the analysis of complex biological systems. Topics covered in the course include principles and methods used for sequence alignment, motif finding, structural modeling, structure prediction and network modeling, as well as currently emerging research areas.
7.92J | Neurology, Neuropsychology, and Neurobiology of Aging | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-110j-neurology-neuropsychology-and-neurobiology-of-aging-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin,  Vernon M. Ingram term:Spring 2005 features: description:Lectures and discussions in this course cover the clinical, behavioral, and molecular aspects of the brain aging processes in humans. Topics include the loss of memory and other cognitive abilities in normal aging, as well as neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Discussions based on readings taken from primary literature explore the current research in this field.
7.98J | Neural Plasticity in Learning and Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-301j-neural-plasticity-in-learning-and-development-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Earl Miller,  Guosong Liu,  Matt Wilson,  Susumu Tonegawa,  William Quinn term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Roles of neural plasticity in learning and memory and in development of invertebrates and mammals. An in-depth critical analysis of current literature of molecular, cellular, genetic, electrophysiological, and behavioral studies. Discussion of original papers supplemented by introductory lectures.
