BIOHOPK155H | Developmental Biology and Evolution (BIOHOPK 255H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK155H | instructors:Lowe, C. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 255)  This course focusses on how animals form their basic body plans; from the formation of their germ layers; ectoderm, endoderm and mesoderm, to how they are organized along the main developmental axes; the anteroposterior and dorsoventral axes. The course will focus in part on the molecular mechanisms that underlie these developmental decisions from work carried out in established developmental model species. However, we will also explore the current understanding of how these mechanisms evolved from new insights from emerging models representing a broad range of animal phyla. The setting at Hopkins Marine Station will allow us to carry out experiments from animals collected in the field, and the course will involve a substantial lab component to complement concepts and approaches presented in lecture. nPre-requisites : Biocore or by permission of instructor
BIOHOPK156H | Hands-On Neurobiology: Structure, Function and Development (BIOHOPK 256H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK156H | instructors:Gilly, W. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI) description:This laboratory course will examine neural and neuromuscular systems at a cellular level in selected vertebrate and invertebrate taxa using anatomical, physiological and molecular approaches. Intracellular dye injections and confocal microscopy will be used to visualize neuronal structure. Ca-imaging will permit functional analysis of living neurons. Electrical recording methods will be used to explore principles of excitability, synaptic transmission, sensory pathways and neural integration. Development of neural systems will be studied using molecular visualization methods. Work in the lab will be supplemented with informal lectures and discussions, and results of the labs will be reviewed weekly. Two 4-hour afternoon lab sessions per week
BIOHOPK161H | Invertebrate Zoology (BIOHOPK 261H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK161H | instructors:Watanabe, J. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 261H.) Survey of invertebrate diversity emphasizing form and function in a phylogenetic framework. Morphological diversity, life histories, physiology, and ecology of the major invertebrate groups, concentrating on local marine forms as examples. Current views on the phylogenetic relationships and evolution of the invertebrates. Lectures, lab, plus field trips.  Satisfies Central Menu Area 3 for Bio majors. Prerequisite: Biology core or consent of instructor.
BIOHOPK163H | Oceanic Biology (BIOHOPK 263H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK163H | instructors:Denny, M. (PI); Somero, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 263H.) How the physics and chemistry of the oceanic environment affect marine plants and animals. Topics: seawater and ocean circulation, separation of light and nutrients in the two-layered ocean, oceanic food webs and trophic interactions, oceanic environments, biogeography, and global change. Lectures, discussion, and field trips. Satisfies Central Menu Area 4 for Bio majors. Recommended: PHYSICS 21 or 51, CHEM 31, Biology core, or consent of instructor.
BIOHOPK168H | Disease Ecology: from parasites evolution to the socio-economic impacts of pathogens on nations (BIOHOPK 268H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK168H | instructors:De Leo, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 268H.) Course  will lead participants on a journey through the dynamics of infectious diseases that will start at the smallest level from within-host parasite dynamics and will progressively scale up to parasite evolution, disease ecology, public health policies, disease driven poverty traps and the socio-economic impact of infectious diseases on nations. The course will be organized around case studies, including among the others, schistosomiasis, malaria, cholera and sleeping sickness. Participants will have the opportunity to develop a capstone project.
BIOHOPK172H | Marine Ecology: From Organisms to Ecosystems (BIOHOPK 272H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK172H | instructors:Micheli, F. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 272H.) This course incorporates the approaches of experimental ecology, biomechanics (ecomechanics), and physiology to develop an integrated perspective on the factors that govern the structures of marine ecosystems and how environment change, including anthropogenic influences, affects ecosystems' species composition and health.  Focus is on rocky intertidal, kelp forest, estuarine, and midwater ecosystems of Monterey Bay.  Experimental projects done in the field offer experience in a variety of ecological techniques and in analysis of ecological data. Students will engage in presentation and debates of current topics in marine ecology and conservation. Satisfies Central Menu Area 4 for Bio majors. Prerequisite: Biology core or consent of instructor. Fulfills WIM in Biology.
BIOHOPK173H | Marine Conservation Biology (BIOHOPK 273H) | http://BIOHOPK173H.stanford.edu | instructors:Crowder, L. (PI); Mason, J. (TA) description:(Graduate students register for 273H.). Introduction to the key concepts of ecology and policy relevant to marine conservation issues at the population to ecosystems level. Focus on the origin and maintenance of biodiversity and conservation applications from both the biology and policy perspectives (for example, endangered species, captive breeding, reserve design, habitat fragmentation, ecosystem restoration/rehabilitation).  Also includes emerging approaches such as ecosystem based management, ocean planning, and coupled social-ecological systems.  The course will include lectures, readings and discussions of primary literature, and attendance at seminars with visiting scholars.  Prerequisite: introductory biology; suggested: a policy and/or introductory ecology course.
BIOHOPK174H | Experimental Design and Probability (BIOHOPK 274H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK174H | instructors:Watanabe, J. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 274H.) Variability is an integral part of biology. Introduction to probability and its use in designing experiments to address biological problems. Focus is on analysis of variance, when and how to use it, why it works, and how to interpret the results. Design of complex, but practical, asymmetrical experiments and environmental impact studies, and regression and analysis of covariance. Computer-based data analysis. Prerequisite: Biology core or consent of instructor.
BIOHOPK177H | Dynamics and Management of  Marine Populations (BIOHOPK 277H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK177H | instructors:De Leo, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 277H.) Course examines the ecological factors and processes that control natural and harvested marine populations. Course emphasizes mathematical models as tools to assess the dynamics of populations and to derive projections of their demographic fate under different management scenarios. Course objectives will be met by a combination of theoretical lectures, assigned readings and class discussions, case study analysis and interactive computer sessions.
BIOHOPK179H | Physiological Ecology of Marine Megafauna (BIOHOPK 279H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK179H | instructors:Goldbogen, J. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 279H.)  The ocean is home to the largest animals of all-time. How, when, and why did gigantism evolve in different taxa? What are the consequences of large body size? This course will focus on how biological processes scale with body size, with an emphasis on oceanic megafauna including marine mammals, birds, fishes, and reptiles. In particular, the course will explore the functional mechanisms that generate the scaling relationships for physiological and ecological traits, such as metabolism, ecosystem function and body size evolution. Students will also be introduced to state-of-the-art technologies used to student marine megafauna in some of the most logistically challenging habitats on earth.
BIOHOPK181H | Physiology of Global Change (BIOHOPK 281H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK181H | instructors:Somero, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 281H.) Global change is leading to significant alterations in several environmental factors, including temperature, ocean acidity and oxygen availability.  This course focuses on: (i) how these environmental changes lead to physiological stress and (ii) how, and to what extent, are organisms able to adapt through short-term acclimatization and evolutionary adaptation to cope with these stresses. A major focus of the class is to link changes in species' distribution patterns with underlying physiological mechanics that establish environmental optima and tolerance limits.
BIOHOPK182H | Stanford at Sea (BIOHOPK 323H, ESS 323) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK182H | instructors: description:(Graduate students register for 323H.) Five weeks of marine science including oceanography, marine physiology, policy, maritime studies, conservation, and nautical science at Hopkins Marine Station, followed by five weeks at sea aboard a sailing research vessel in the Pacific Ocean. Shore component comprised of three multidisciplinary courses meeting daily and continuing aboard ship. Students develop an independent research project plan while ashore, and carry out the research at sea. In collaboration with the Sea Education Association of Woods Hole, MA. Only 6 units may count towards the Biology major.
BIOHOPK187H | Sensory Ecology (BIOHOPK 287H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK187H | instructors:Thompson, S. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 287H.) Topics: the ways animals receive, filter, and process information gleaned from the environment, sensory receptor mechanisms, neural processing, specialization to life underwater, communication within and between species, importance of behavior to ecosystem structure and dynamics, impact of acoustic and light pollution on marine animals. Emphasis is on the current scientific literature. The laboratory portion of the class explores sensory mechanisms using neurobiological methods and methods of experimental animal behavior.
BIOHOPK198H | Directed Instruction or Reading | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK198H | instructors:Block, B. (PI); Crowder, L. (PI); De Leo, G. (PI); Denny, M. (PI); Gilly, W. (PI); Goldbogen, J. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI); Micheli, F. (PI); Palumbi, S. (PI); Thompson, S. (PI); Watanabe, J. (PI) description:May be taken as a prelude to research and may also involve participation in a lab or research group seminar and/or library research. Credit for work arranged with out-of-department instructors restricted to Biology majors and requires department approval. May be repeated for credit. (Staff)
BIOHOPK199H | Undergraduate Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK199H | instructors:Block, B. (PI); Crowder, L. (PI); De Leo, G. (PI); Denny, M. (PI); Gilly, W. (PI); Goldbogen, J. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI); Micheli, F. (PI); Palumbi, S. (PI); Thompson, S. (PI); Watanabe, J. (PI) description:Qualified undergraduates undertake individual work in the fields listed under 300H. Arrangements must be made by consultation or correspondence.
BIOHOPK234H | Topics in Comparative and Environmental Physiology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK234H | instructors:Goldbogen, J. (PI) description:Seminar and discussion focused on current topics and research at the interface of physiology and ecology
BIOHOPK255H | Developmental Biology and Evolution (BIOHOPK 155H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK255H | instructors:Lowe, C. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 255)  This course focusses on how animals form their basic body plans; from the formation of their germ layers; ectoderm, endoderm and mesoderm, to how they are organized along the main developmental axes; the anteroposterior and dorsoventral axes. The course will focus in part on the molecular mechanisms that underlie these developmental decisions from work carried out in established developmental model species. However, we will also explore the current understanding of how these mechanisms evolved from new insights from emerging models representing a broad range of animal phyla. The setting at Hopkins Marine Station will allow us to carry out experiments from animals collected in the field, and the course will involve a substantial lab component to complement concepts and approaches presented in lecture. nPre-requisites : Biocore or by permission of instructor
BIOHOPK256H | Hands-On Neurobiology: Structure, Function and Development (BIOHOPK 156H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK256H | instructors:Gilly, W. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI) description:This laboratory course will examine neural and neuromuscular systems at a cellular level in selected vertebrate and invertebrate taxa using anatomical, physiological and molecular approaches. Intracellular dye injections and confocal microscopy will be used to visualize neuronal structure. Ca-imaging will permit functional analysis of living neurons. Electrical recording methods will be used to explore principles of excitability, synaptic transmission, sensory pathways and neural integration. Development of neural systems will be studied using molecular visualization methods. Work in the lab will be supplemented with informal lectures and discussions, and results of the labs will be reviewed weekly. Two 4-hour afternoon lab sessions per week
BIOHOPK261H | Invertebrate Zoology (BIOHOPK 161H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK261H | instructors:Watanabe, J. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 261H.) Survey of invertebrate diversity emphasizing form and function in a phylogenetic framework. Morphological diversity, life histories, physiology, and ecology of the major invertebrate groups, concentrating on local marine forms as examples. Current views on the phylogenetic relationships and evolution of the invertebrates. Lectures, lab, plus field trips.  Satisfies Central Menu Area 3 for Bio majors. Prerequisite: Biology core or consent of instructor.
BIOHOPK263H | Oceanic Biology (BIOHOPK 163H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK263H | instructors:Denny, M. (PI); Somero, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 263H.) How the physics and chemistry of the oceanic environment affect marine plants and animals. Topics: seawater and ocean circulation, separation of light and nutrients in the two-layered ocean, oceanic food webs and trophic interactions, oceanic environments, biogeography, and global change. Lectures, discussion, and field trips. Satisfies Central Menu Area 4 for Bio majors. Recommended: PHYSICS 21 or 51, CHEM 31, Biology core, or consent of instructor.
BIOHOPK268H | Disease Ecology: from parasites evolution to the socio-economic impacts of pathogens on nations (BIOHOPK 168H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK268H | instructors:De Leo, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 268H.) Course  will lead participants on a journey through the dynamics of infectious diseases that will start at the smallest level from within-host parasite dynamics and will progressively scale up to parasite evolution, disease ecology, public health policies, disease driven poverty traps and the socio-economic impact of infectious diseases on nations. The course will be organized around case studies, including among the others, schistosomiasis, malaria, cholera and sleeping sickness. Participants will have the opportunity to develop a capstone project.
BIOHOPK272H | Marine Ecology: From Organisms to Ecosystems (BIOHOPK 172H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK272H | instructors:Micheli, F. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 272H.) This course incorporates the approaches of experimental ecology, biomechanics (ecomechanics), and physiology to develop an integrated perspective on the factors that govern the structures of marine ecosystems and how environment change, including anthropogenic influences, affects ecosystems' species composition and health.  Focus is on rocky intertidal, kelp forest, estuarine, and midwater ecosystems of Monterey Bay.  Experimental projects done in the field offer experience in a variety of ecological techniques and in analysis of ecological data. Students will engage in presentation and debates of current topics in marine ecology and conservation. Satisfies Central Menu Area 4 for Bio majors. Prerequisite: Biology core or consent of instructor. Fulfills WIM in Biology.
BIOHOPK273H | Marine Conservation Biology (BIOHOPK 173H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK273H | instructors:Crowder, L. (PI); Mason, J. (TA) description:(Graduate students register for 273H.). Introduction to the key concepts of ecology and policy relevant to marine conservation issues at the population to ecosystems level. Focus on the origin and maintenance of biodiversity and conservation applications from both the biology and policy perspectives (for example, endangered species, captive breeding, reserve design, habitat fragmentation, ecosystem restoration/rehabilitation).  Also includes emerging approaches such as ecosystem based management, ocean planning, and coupled social-ecological systems.  The course will include lectures, readings and discussions of primary literature, and attendance at seminars with visiting scholars.  Prerequisite: introductory biology; suggested: a policy and/or introductory ecology course.
BIOHOPK274H | Experimental Design and Probability (BIOHOPK 174H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK274H | instructors:Watanabe, J. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 274H.) Variability is an integral part of biology. Introduction to probability and its use in designing experiments to address biological problems. Focus is on analysis of variance, when and how to use it, why it works, and how to interpret the results. Design of complex, but practical, asymmetrical experiments and environmental impact studies, and regression and analysis of covariance. Computer-based data analysis. Prerequisite: Biology core or consent of instructor.
BIOHOPK277H | Dynamics and Management of  Marine Populations (BIOHOPK 177H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK277H | instructors:De Leo, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 277H.) Course examines the ecological factors and processes that control natural and harvested marine populations. Course emphasizes mathematical models as tools to assess the dynamics of populations and to derive projections of their demographic fate under different management scenarios. Course objectives will be met by a combination of theoretical lectures, assigned readings and class discussions, case study analysis and interactive computer sessions.
BIOHOPK279H | Physiological Ecology of Marine Megafauna (BIOHOPK 179H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK279H | instructors:Goldbogen, J. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 279H.)  The ocean is home to the largest animals of all-time. How, when, and why did gigantism evolve in different taxa? What are the consequences of large body size? This course will focus on how biological processes scale with body size, with an emphasis on oceanic megafauna including marine mammals, birds, fishes, and reptiles. In particular, the course will explore the functional mechanisms that generate the scaling relationships for physiological and ecological traits, such as metabolism, ecosystem function and body size evolution. Students will also be introduced to state-of-the-art technologies used to student marine megafauna in some of the most logistically challenging habitats on earth.
BIOHOPK281H | Physiology of Global Change (BIOHOPK 181H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK281H | instructors:Somero, G. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 281H.) Global change is leading to significant alterations in several environmental factors, including temperature, ocean acidity and oxygen availability.  This course focuses on: (i) how these environmental changes lead to physiological stress and (ii) how, and to what extent, are organisms able to adapt through short-term acclimatization and evolutionary adaptation to cope with these stresses. A major focus of the class is to link changes in species' distribution patterns with underlying physiological mechanics that establish environmental optima and tolerance limits.
BIOHOPK287H | Sensory Ecology (BIOHOPK 187H) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK287H | instructors:Thompson, S. (PI) description:(Graduate students register for 287H.) Topics: the ways animals receive, filter, and process information gleaned from the environment, sensory receptor mechanisms, neural processing, specialization to life underwater, communication within and between species, importance of behavior to ecosystem structure and dynamics, impact of acoustic and light pollution on marine animals. Emphasis is on the current scientific literature. The laboratory portion of the class explores sensory mechanisms using neurobiological methods and methods of experimental animal behavior.
BIOHOPK290H | Teaching of Biological Science | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK290H | instructors:Block, B. (PI); Crowder, L. (PI); De Leo, G. (PI); Denny, M. (PI); Gilly, W. (PI); Goldbogen, J. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI); Micheli, F. (PI); Palumbi, S. (PI); Thompson, S. (PI); Watanabe, J. (PI) description:Open to upper-division undergraduates and graduate students. Practical experience in teaching lab biology or serving as an assistant in a lecture course. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.nn (Staff)
BIOHOPK300H | Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK300H | instructors:Block, B. (PI); Crowder, L. (PI); De Leo, G. (PI); Denny, M. (PI); Gilly, W. (PI); Goldbogen, J. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI); Micheli, F. (PI); Palumbi, S. (PI); Thompson, S. (PI); Watanabe, J. (PI) description:Graduate study involving original work undertaken with staff in the fields indicated. B. Block: Comparative Vertebrate Physiology (biomechanics, metabolic physiology and phylogeny of pelagic fishes, evolution of endothermy);  L. Crowder: Marine ecology, fisheries, bycatch, integrating science and policy, marine conservation;  G. De Leo: Population dynamics and management, wildlife diseases, environmental policies and sustainable development; M. Denny: Biomechanics (the mechanical properties of biological materials and their consequences for animal size, shape, and performance);  W. Gilly: Neurobiology (analysis of giant axon systems in marine invertebrates from molecular to behavioral levels); J. Goldbogen: Physiological and Behavioral Ecology (functional morphology and biomechanics of marine organisms): C. Lowe: Evolution of Development (origin of chordates, early evolution of body plans);  F. Micheli: Marine Ecology (species interactions and community ecology, scale-dependent aspects of community organization, marine conservation and design of multi-species marine protected areas, behavioral ecology); S. Palumbi: Molecular Evolution (mechanisms of speciation, genetic differentiations of populations, use of molecular tools in conservation biology, design of marine protected areas); S. Thompson: Neurobiology (neuronal control of behavior and mechanisms of ion permeation, signal transduction, calcium homeostasis, and neutrotransmission); J. Watanabe: Marine Ecology (kelp forest ecology and invertebrate zoology).
BIOHOPK315H | Career Development for Graduate Students | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK315H | instructors: description:The course will cover multiple skills required to succeed in graduate school and beyond, including fund raising, publishing, selecting career options, job application and negotiation, and teaching, through lectures, group discussions, and practical excercises.
BIOHOPK323H | Stanford at Sea (BIOHOPK 182H, ESS 323) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK323H | instructors: description:(Graduate students register for 323H.) Five weeks of marine science including oceanography, marine physiology, policy, maritime studies, conservation, and nautical science at Hopkins Marine Station, followed by five weeks at sea aboard a sailing research vessel in the Pacific Ocean. Shore component comprised of three multidisciplinary courses meeting daily and continuing aboard ship. Students develop an independent research project plan while ashore, and carry out the research at sea. In collaboration with the Sea Education Association of Woods Hole, MA. Only 6 units may count towards the Biology major.
BIOHOPK43 | Plant Biology, Evolution, and Ecology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK43 | instructors:Micheli, F. (PI); Palumbi, S. (PI); Watanabe, J. (PI) description:Introduction to biology in a marine context. Principles of plant biology: physiology, structure, diversity. Principles of evolution: macro and microevolution, population genetics. Ecology: the principles governing the distribution and abundance of organisms; population, community, and ecosystem ecology. Equivalent to BIO 43. Corequisite: BIOHOPK 44Y.
BIOHOPK801H | TGR Project | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK801H | instructors:Block, B. (PI); Crowder, L. (PI); De Leo, G. (PI); De Tomaso, A. (PI); Denny, M. (PI); Gilly, W. (PI); Goldbogen, J. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI); Micheli, F. (PI); Palumbi, S. (PI); Thompson, S. (PI); Watanabe, J. (PI) description:
BIOHOPK802H | TGR Dissertation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOHOPK802H | instructors:Block, B. (PI); Crowder, L. (PI); De Leo, G. (PI); Denny, M. (PI); Gilly, W. (PI); Goldbogen, J. (PI); Lowe, C. (PI); Micheli, F. (PI); Palumbi, S. (PI); Thompson, S. (PI); Watanabe, J. (PI) description:
