16.423J | Aerospace Biomedical and Life Support Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-423j-aerospace-biomedical-and-life-support-engineering-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dava Newman term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course introduces students to a quantitative approach to studying the problems of physiological adaptation in altered environments, especially microgravity and partial gravity environments. The course curriculum starts with an Introduction and Selected Topics, which provides background information on the physiological problems associated with human space flight, as well as reviewing terminology and key engineering concepts. Then curriculum modules on Bone Mechanics, Muscle Mechanics, Musculoskeletal Dynamics and Control, and the Cardiovascular System are presented. These modules start out with qualitative and biological information regarding the system and its adaptation, and progresses to a quantitative endpoint in which engineering methods are used to analyze specific problems and countermeasures. Additional course curriculum focuses on interdisciplinary topics, suggestions include extravehicular activity and life support. The final module consists of student term project work.
16.430J | Sensory-Neural Systems: Spatial Orientation from End Organs to Behavior and Adaptation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-430j-sensory-neural-systems-spatial-orientation-from-end-organs-to-behavior-and-adaptation-spring-2012 | textbook:Ciuffreda, K. J., and B. Tannen. Chapters 1, 3–5, and 8 in Eye Movement Basics for the Clinician. Mosby, 1995. textbook:Horak, F. B., and J. M. MacPherson. "Postural Orientation and Equilibrium." Chapter 7 in Handbook of Physiology: Section 12: Exercise: Regulation and Integration of Multiple Systems. Edited by L. B. Rowell and J. T. Shepherd. American Physiological Society / Oxford University Press, 1996, pp. 255–92. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Charles M. Oman, Dr. Laurence R. Young, Dr. Daniel M. Merfeld, Dr. Kathleen Cullen term:Spring 2012 features: description:This course introduces sensory systems and multi-sensory fusion using the vestibular and spatial orientation systems as a model. Topics range from end organ dynamics to neural responses, to sensory integration, to behavior, and adaptation, with particular application to balance, posture and locomotion under normal gravity and space conditions. Depending upon the background and interests of the students, advanced term project topics might include motion sickness, astronaut adaptation, artificial gravity, lunar surface locomotion, vestibulo-cardiovascular responses, vestibular neural prostheses, or other topics of interest.
16.456J | Biomedical Signal and Image Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-582j-biomedical-signal-and-image-processing-spring-2007 | textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and R. W. Schafer, with J. R. Buck. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1999. textbook:Papoulis, A., and S. U. Pillai. Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2001. textbook:Siebert, W. M. Circuits, Signals and Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1985. textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and A. S. Willsky, with H. Nawab. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River: Prentice-Hall, 1996. textbook:Karu, Z. Z. Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple. Huntsville, AL: ZiZi Press, 1995. textbook:Duda, R., and P. Hart. Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1973. textbook:Duda, R., P. Hart, and D. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2000. textbook:Bishop, C. Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996. textbook:Nabney, I. Netlab: Algorithms for Pattern Recognition. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Clifford, G., F. Azuajae, and P. McSharry. Advanced Methods and Tools for ECG Data Analysis. Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2006. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and R. W. Schafer. Digital Processing of Speech Signals. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1978. textbook:Quatieri, T. F. Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing: Principles and Practice. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2001. textbook:Lim, J. S. Two-Dimensional Signal and Image Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. textbook:Epstein, C. L. Mathematics of Medical Imaging. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Webb, S. The Physics of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1988. textbook:Westbrook, C., C. Kaut Roth, and T. Talbot. MRI in Practice. 3rd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, Inc., 2005. textbook:Macovski, A. Medical Imaging Systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1983. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Gari Clifford, Dr. John Fisher, Dr. Julie Greenberg, Dr. William Wells term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course presents the fundamentals of digital signal processing with particular emphasis on problems in biomedical research and clinical medicine. It covers principles and algorithms for processing both deterministic and random signals. Topics include data acquisition, imaging, filtering, coding, feature extraction, and modeling. The focus of the course is a series of labs that provide practical experience in processing physiological data, with examples from cardiology, speech processing, and medical imaging. The labs are done in MATLAB&reg; during weekly lab sessions that take place in an electronic classroom. Lectures cover signal processing topics relevant to the lab exercises, as well as background on the biological signals processed in the labs.
16.459 | Bioengineering Journal Article Seminar | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-459-bioengineering-journal-article-seminar-fall-2011 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Charles M. Oman, Dr. Laurence R. Young, Dr. Alan Natapoff term:Fall 2011 features: description:Each term, the class selects a new set of professional journal articles on bioengineering topics of current research interest. Some papers are chosen because of particular content, others are selected because they illustrate important points of methodology. Each week, one student leads the discussion, evaluating the strengths, weaknesses, and importance of each paper. Subject may be repeated for credit a maximum of four terms. Letter grade given in the last term applies to all accumulated units of 16.459.
20.010J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
20.011J | Statistical Thermodynamics of Biomolecular Systems (BE.011J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-011j-statistical-thermodynamics-of-biomolecular-systems-be-011j-spring-2004 | textbook:All Text Readings are in  Dill, K., and S. Bromberg. Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:van Holde =  van Holde, K. E., W. C. Johnson, and P. S. Ho. Principles of Physical Biochemistry. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Eisenberg =  Eisenberg, D., and D. Crothers. Physical Chemistry with Applications to the Life Sciences. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings, 1979. textbook:Kittel =  Kittel, C., and H. Kroemer. Thermal Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1980. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kim Hamad-Schifferli,  Linda Griffith term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to the physical chemistry of biological systems. Topics include: connection of macroscopic thermodynamic properties to microscopic molecular properties using statistical mechanics, chemical potentials, equilibrium states, binding cooperativity, behavior of macromolecules in solution and at interfaces, and solvation. Example problems include protein structure, genomic analysis, single molecule biomechanics, and biomaterials.
20.020 | Introduction to Biological Engineering Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-020-introduction-to-biological-engineering-design-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Natalie Kuldell,  Andrew Endy term:Spring 2009 features:Subtitles/transcript, Tutorial - video, Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This class is a project-based introduction to the engineering of synthetic biological systems. Throughout the term, students develop projects that are responsive to real-world problems of their choosing, and whose solutions depend on biological technologies. Lectures, discussions, and studio exercises will introduce (1) components and control of prokaryotic and eukaryotic behavior, (2) DNA synthesis, standards, and abstraction in biological engineering, and (3) issues of human practice, including biological safety; security; ownership, sharing, and innovation; and ethics. Enrollment preference is given to freshmen.This subject was originally developed and first taught in Spring 2008 by Drew Endy and Natalie Kuldell. Many of Drew's materials are used in this Spring 2009 version, and are included with his permission.This OCW Web site is based on the OpenWetWare class Wiki, found at OpenWetWare: 20.020 (S09)
20.102 | Macroepidemiology (BE.102) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-102-macroepidemiology-be-102-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:William Thilly term:Spring 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course presents a challenging multi-dimensional perspective on the causes of human disease and mortality. The course focuses on analyses of major causes of mortality in the US since 1900: cancer, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, diabetes, and infectious diseases. Students create analytical models to derive estimates for historically variant population risk factors and physiological rate parameters, and conduct analyses of familial data to separately estimate inherited and environmental risks. The course evaluates the basic population genetics of dominant, recessive and non-deleterious inherited risk factors.
20.104J | Chemicals in the Environment: Toxicology and Public Health (BE.104J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-104j-chemicals-in-the-environment-toxicology-and-public-health-be-104j-spring-2005 | textbook:Gordis, L. Epidemiology. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2004. textbook:Schork, M. A., and R. D. Remington. Statistics with Applications to the Biological and Health Sciences. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:James Sherley, Dr. Laura Green,  Steven Tannenbaum term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course addresses the challenges of defining a relationship between exposure to environmental chemicals and human disease. Course topics include epidemiological approaches to understanding disease causation; biostatistical methods; evaluation of human exposure to chemicals, and their internal distribution, metabolism, reactions with cellular components, and biological effects; and qualitative and quantitative health risk assessment methods used in the U.S. as bases for regulatory decision-making. Throughout the term, students consider case studies of local and national interest.
20.106J | Systems Microbiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-106j-systems-microbiology-fall-2006 | textbook:Many of the readings come from the course textbook, "Brock":  Madigan, Michael, and John Martinko. Brock Biology of Microorganisms. 11th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Schauer,  Edward DeLong term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers introductory microbiology from a systems perspective, considering microbial diversity, population dynamics, and genomics. Emphasis is placed on the delicate balance between microbes and humans, and the changes that result in the emergence of infectious diseases and antimicrobial resistance. The case study approach covers such topics as vaccines, toxins, biodefense, and infections including Legionnaire&rsquo;s disease, tuberculosis, Helicobacter pylori, and plague.
20.109 | Laboratory Fundamentals in Biological Engineering		 (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-109-laboratory-fundamentals-in-biological-engineering-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Agi Stachowiak,  Alan Jasanoff,  Jacquin Niles, Dr. Atissa Banuazizi<br/>(Oral Presentation Instructor), Dr. Neal Lerner<br/>(Writing Instructor), Dr. Linda Sutliff<br/>(Writing Instructor) term:Spring 2010 features:Special feature - video, Assignments and solutions description:This course introduces experimental biochemical and molecular techniques from a quantitative engineering perspective. Experimental design, data analysis, and scientific communication form the underpinnings of this subject. Three discovery-based experimental modules focus on RNA engineering, protein engineering, and cell-biomaterial engineering.This OCW site is based on the source OpenWetWare class Wiki, 20.109(S10): Laboratory Fundamentals of Biological Engineering.
20.109 | Laboratory Fundamentals in Biological Engineering		 (Fall 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-109-laboratory-fundamentals-in-biological-engineering-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Drew Endy, Dr. Natalie Kuldell, Dr. Neal Lerner<br/>(Writing Instructor), Dr. Agi Stachowiak,  Angela M. Belcher, Dr. Atissa Banuazizi<br/>(Oral Presentation Instructor) term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces experimental biochemical and molecular techniques from a quantitative engineering perspective. Experimental design, rigorous data analysis, and scientific communication form the underpinnings of this subject. Three discovery-based experimental modules focus on genome engineering, expression engineering, and biomaterial engineering.This OCW site is based on the source OpenWetWare class Wiki, found at 20.109(F07): Laboratory Fundamentals of Biological Engineering.
20.110J | Thermodynamics of Biomolecular Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-110j-thermodynamics-of-biomolecular-systems-fall-2005 | textbook:[SAB]  Silbey, R., R. Alberty, and M. Bawendi. Physical Chemistry. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2004. textbook:[DB]  Dill, Ken A., and Sarina Bromberg. Molecular Driving Forces: Statistical Thermodynamics in Chemistry and Biology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kim Hamad-Schifferli,  Linda Griffith,  Moungi Bawendi,  Robert Field term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This subject deals primarily with equilibrium properties of macroscopic and microscopic systems, basic thermodynamics, chemical equilibrium of reactions in gas and solution phase, and macromolecular interactions.
20.180 | Biological Engineering Programming | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-180-biological-engineering-programming-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Andrew Endy term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Exams and solutions description:In this course problems from biological engineering are used to develop structured computer programming skills and explore the theory and practice of complex systems design and construction. The official course Web site can be viewed at: BE.180 Biological Engineering Programming.
20.181 | Computation for Biological Engineers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-181-computation-for-biological-engineers-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Eric Alm,  Andrew Endy term:Fall 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the analytical, graphical, and numerical methods supporting the analysis and design of integrated biological systems. Topics include modularity and abstraction in biological systems, mathematical encoding of detailed physical problems, numerical methods for solving the dynamics of continuous and discrete chemical systems, statistics and probability in dynamic systems, applied local and global optimization, simple feedback and control analysis, statistics and probability in pattern recognition.An official course Web site and Wiki is maintained on OpenWetWare: 20.181 Computation for Biological Engineers.
20.309 | Biological Engineering II: Instrumentation and Measurement | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-309-biological-engineering-ii-instrumentation-and-measurement-fall-2006 | textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005, chapters 2, 3, 9, and 10. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "Sinusoidal Steady State." Chapter 13 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "The Operational Amplifier Abstraction." Chapter 15 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Strang, G. "Analytical Methods." Chapter 4 in Introduction to Applied Mathematics. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 1986. textbook:W. H., et al. "Introduction," and "Fourier Transform of Discretely Sampled Data;" Chapter 12.0-12.1 and "Power Spectrum Estimation Using the FFT." Chapter 13.4 in Press, Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. "Histograms, Contrast, Spatial Filtering" Chapter 4, "Morphological Operations" Chapter 8, "Segmentation" Chapter 7, and "Recognition & Interpretation" Chapter 9 in Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Maxim Shusteff,  Peter So,  Scott Manalis term:Fall 2006 features:Tutorial - video, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers sensing and measurement for quantitative molecular/cell/tissue analysis, in terms of genetic, biochemical, and biophysical properties. Methods include light and fluorescence microscopies; electro-mechanical probes such as atomic force microscopy, laser and magnetic traps, and MEMS devices; and the application of statistics, probability and noise analysis to experimental data. Enrollment preference is given to juniors and seniors.
20.330J | Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-330j-fields-forces-and-flows-in-biological-systems-spring-2007 | textbook:TY & K:  Truskey, G. A., F. Yuan, and D. F. Katz. Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:H & M: Haus, H. A., and J. R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Probstein:  Probstein, R. F. Physiochemical Hydrodynamics: An Introduction. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2003. textbook:Jones:  Jones, T. B. Electromechanics of Particles. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Deen, W. "Stream Function." Section 5.9 in Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Deen, W. "Appendix A, Tables A-1 through A-4 (Vector Identity summary)." In Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Berg, H. C. "One-dimensional Random Walks." In Random Walks in Biology. 2nd ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jongyoon Han,  Scott Manalis term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces the basic driving forces for electric current, fluid flow, and mass transport, plus their application to a variety of biological systems. Basic mathematical and engineering tools will be introduced, in the context of biology and physiology. Various electrokinetic phenomena are also considered as an example of coupled nature of chemical-electro-mechanical driving forces. Applications include transport in biological tissues and across membranes, manipulation of cells and biomolecules, and microfluidics.
20.340J | Materials for Biomedical Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-051j-materials-for-biomedical-applications-spring-2006 | textbook:Ratner, Buddy D., et al. Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials in Medicine. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Anne Mayes term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Exams and solutions description:This class provides an introduction to the interactions between cells and the surfaces of biomaterials. The course covers: surface chemistry and physics of selected metals, polymers, and ceramics; surface characterization methodology; modification of biomaterials surfaces; quantitative assays of cell behavior in culture; biosensors and microarrays; bulk properties of implants; and acute and chronic response to implanted biomaterials. General topics include biosensors, drug delivery, and tissue engineering.
20.370J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
20.371J | Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-542j-quantitative-physiology-organ-transport-systems-spring-2004 | textbook:Listed below are also relevant sections from the course textbook:  Costanzo, Linda S. Physiology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jose Venegas,  Roger Mark term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course elaborates on the application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. It discusses mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. It also discusses anatomical, physiological, and pathophysiological features of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems. There is emphasis on those systems, features, and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences.
20.380J | Biological Engineering Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-380j-biological-engineering-design-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:John Essigmann,  Darrell Irvine,  Forest White, Dr. Atissa Banuazizi<br/>(Writing Instructor), Mr. Harlan Breindel<br/>(Writing Instructor), Dr. Mya Poe<br/>(Writing Instructor) term:Spring 2010 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course illustrates how knowledge and principles of biology, biochemistry, and engineering are integrated to create new products for societal benefit. It uses a case study format to examine recently developed products of pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries: how a product evolves from initial idea, through patents, testing, evaluation, production, and marketing. Emphasizes scientific and engineering principles; the responsibility scientists, engineers, and business executives have for the consequences of their technology; and instruction and practice in written and oral communication. The topic focus of this class will vary from year to year. This version looks at inflammation underlying many diseases, specifically its role in cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.
20.470J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
20.400J | Perspectives in Biological Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-400j-perspectives-in-biological-engineering-spring-2006 | textbook:Lodish, Harvey, Matthew P. Scott, Paul Matsudaira, James Darnell, Lawrence Zipursky, Chris A. Kaiser, Arnold Berk, and Monty Krieger. Molecular Cell Biology. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Douglas Lauffenburger,  Peter Dedon term:Spring 2006 features: description:This seminar-format course provides an in-depth presentation and discussion of how engineering and biological approaches can be combined to solve problems in science and technology, emphasizing integration of biological information and methodologies with engineering analysis, synthesis, and design. Emphasis is placed on molecular mechanisms underlying cellular processes, including signal transduction, gene expression networks, and functional responses.
20.410J | Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics (BE.410J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-410j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-be-410j-spring-2003 | textbook:Daune, Michel. Chapter 2 in Molecular Biophysics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Dill, K. A., and S. Bromberg. Chapters 6, 8 and 10 in Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Boal, David H. Chapter 2 in Mechanics of the Cell. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Howard, Johnathon. Chapters 5 and 10 in Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Ward, J. P. Solid Mechanics. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Lodish, H., et. al. Molecular Cell Biology. 3rd. ed. New York, NY: Scientific American Books/W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Malvern, Lawrence E. Chapter 6 in Introduction to the Mechanics of a Continuous Medium. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1969, pp. 278-282. textbook:Fung, Y. C. Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:Ferry, J. D. "The Nature of Viscoelastic Behavior." Chapter 1 in Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. level:Graduate instructors:Roger D. Kamm,  Patrick Doyle,  Maxine Jonas<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales. Topics include: structure of tissues and the molecular basis for macroscopic properties; chemical and electrical effects on mechanical behavior; cell mechanics, motility and adhesion; biomembranes; biomolecular mechanics and molecular motors. Experimental methods for probing structures at the tissue, cellular, and molecular levels will also be investigated.This course was originally co-developed by Professors Alan Grodzinsky, Roger Kamm, and L. Mahadevan.
20.420J | Biomolecular Kinetics and Cellular Dynamics (BE.420J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-420j-biomolecular-kinetics-and-cellular-dynamics-be-420j-fall-2004 | textbook:Lauffenburger, Douglas A., and J. Jennifer Linderman. Receptors: Models for Binding, Trafficking, and Signaling. New York: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Hammes, Gordon G. Thermodynamics and Kinetics for the Biological Sciences. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 2000. textbook:Creighton, Thomas E. Proteins: Structures and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1993. textbook:Bailey, James, and David F. Ollis. Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals. 2nd ed. Burr Ridge, IL: McGraw Hill Higher Education, 1986. textbook:Steinfeld, Jeffrey I., J. S. Francisco, and W. L. Hase. Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics. 2nd ed. E. Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall PTR, 1998. textbook:Cantor, Charles R., and Paul R. Schimmel. Biophysical Chemistry. New York, NY: Worth Publishers, 1980. textbook:Blanch, Harvey W., and D. S. Clark, eds. Biochemical Engineering. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, 1997. textbook:Shargel, Leon, et al. Applied Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, 2004. textbook:Carberry, James J. Chemical and Catalytic Reaction Engineering. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1976. textbook:Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Cambridge, MA: Perseus Publishing, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Tidor,  Karl Wittrup term:Fall 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject deals primarily with kinetic and equilibrium mathematical models of biomolecular interactions, as well as the application of these quantitative analyses to biological problems across a wide range of levels of organization, from individual molecular interactions to populations of cells.
20.440 | Analysis of Biological Networks (BE.440) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-440-analysis-of-biological-networks-be-440-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:John Essigmann,  Ram Sasisekharan term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This class analyzes complex biological processes from the molecular, cellular, extracellular, and organ levels of hierarchy. Emphasis is placed on the basic biochemical and biophysical principles that govern these processes. Examples of processes to be studied include chemotaxis, the fixation of nitrogen into organic biological molecules, growth factor and hormone mediated signaling cascades, and signaling cascades leading to cell death in response to DNA damage. In each case, the availability of a resource, or the presence of a stimulus, results in some biochemical pathways being turned on while others are turned off. The course examines the dynamic aspects of these processes and details how biochemical mechanistic themes impinge on molecular/cellular/tissue/organ-level functions. Chemical and quantitative views of the interplay of multiple pathways as biological networks are emphasized. Student work culminates in the preparation of a unique grant application in an area of biological networks.
20.441J | Biomaterials-Tissue Interactions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-441j-biomaterials-tissue-interactions-fall-2009 | textbook:[TORA] =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:Darnell, J. E., H. F. Lodish, and D. Baltimore. "Laminin, Fibronectin and Other Multiadhesive Matrix Glycoproteins." Chapter 23.4 in Molecular Cell Biology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman, 1990, pp. 920-924. textbook:Ratner, B. D. "Surface Properties of Biomaterials." In Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 21-35. textbook:Andrade, J. D., ed. Excerpts from "Principles of Protein Adsorption." Chapter 1 in Surface and Interfacial Aspects of Biomedical Polymers, Vol. 2. Protein Adsorption. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1985. textbook:Spector, M., and P. A. Lalor. "In Vivo Assessment of Tissue Compatibility." Chapter 5.3 in Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner, et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 220-228. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers the principles of materials science and cell biology underlying the design of medical implants, artificial organs, and matrices for tissue engineering. Methods for biomaterials surface characterization and analysis of protein adsorption on biomaterials. Molecular and cellular interactions with biomaterials are analyzed in terms of unit cell processes, such as matrix synthesis, degradation, and contraction. Mechanisms underlying wound healing and tissue remodeling following implantation in various organs. Tissue and organ regeneration. Design of implants and prostheses based on control of biomaterials-tissue interactions. Comparative analysis of intact, biodegradable, and bioreplaceable implants by reference to case studies. Criteria for restoration of physiological function for tissues and organs.
20.442 | Molecular Structure of Biological Materials (BE.442) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-442-molecular-structure-of-biological-materials-be-442-fall-2005 | textbook:Branden, Carl, and John Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Routledge, 1999. textbook:Stryer, L. Biochemistry. 4th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Zubay, G. L. Biochemistry. 3rd ed. Dubuque, IA: William C. Brown Publishers, 1993. textbook:Matthews, C. K., and K. E. Van Holde. Biochemistry. 2nd ed. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings Pub. Co., Inc., 1995. textbook:Creighton, T. E. Proteins: Structures and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1993. textbook:Dickerson, R. The Structure and Action of Proteins. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1969. textbook:McGrath, K., and D. Kaplan, eds. Protein-based Materials. Boston, MA: Birkhüaser, 1997. textbook:Ball P. Life's Matrix: A Biography of Water. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2001. textbook:Aggeli, A., et al. Self-assembling Peptide Systems in Biology, Engineering and Medicine. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Shuguang Zhang term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course, intended for both graduate and upper level undergraduate students, will focus on understanding of the basic molecular structural principles of biological materials. It will address the molecular structures of various materials of biological origin, such as several types of collagen, silk, spider silk, wool, hair, bones, shells, protein adhesives, GFP, and self-assembling peptides. It will also address molecular design of new biological materials applying the molecular structural principles. The long-term goal of this course is to teach molecular design of new biological materials for a broad range of applications. A brief history of biological materials and its future perspective as well as its impact to the society will also be discussed. Several experts will be invited to give guest lectures.
20.450 | Molecular and Cellular Pathophysiology (BE.450) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-450-molecular-and-cellular-pathophysiology-be-450-spring-2005 | textbook:Kumar, Vinay, Abul K. Abbas, and Nelson Fausto, eds. Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:David Schauer term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course focuses on the fundamentals of tissue and organ response to injury from a molecular and cellular perspective. There is a special emphasis on disease states that bridge infection, inflammation, immunity, and cancer. The systems approach to pathophysiology includes lectures, critical evaluation of recent scientific papers, and student projects and presentations.This term, we focus on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), chronic-active hepatitis, and hepatitis virus infections. In addition to lectures, students work in teams to critically evaluate and present primary scientific papers.
20.451J | Design of Medical Devices and Implants | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-782j-design-of-medical-devices-and-implants-spring-2006 | textbook:TORA =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This design course targets the solution of clinical problems by use of implants and other medical devices. Topics include the systematic use of cell-matrix control volumes; the role of stress analysis in the design process; anatomic fit, shape and size of implants; selection of biomaterials; instrumentation for surgical implantation procedures; preclinical testing for safety and efficacy, including risk/benefit ratio assessment evaluation of clinical performance and design of clinical trials. Student project materials are drawn from orthopedic devices, soft tissue implants, artificial organs, and dental implants.
20.453J | Biomedical Information Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-453j-biomedical-information-technology-fall-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:C. Forbes Dewey, Jr.,  Hanry Yu,  Sourav Saha Bhowmick term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course teaches the design of contemporary information systems for biological and medical data. Examples are chosen from biology and medicine to illustrate complete life cycle information systems, beginning with data acquisition, following to data storage and finally to retrieval and analysis. Design of appropriate databases, client-server strategies, data interchange protocols, and computational modeling architectures. Students are expected to have some familiarity with scientific application software and a basic understanding of at least one contemporary programming language (e.g. C, C++, Java, Lisp, Perl, Python). A major term project is required of all students. This subject is open to motivated seniors having a strong interest in biomedical engineering and information system design with the ability to carry out a significant independent project.This course was offered as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) program as course number SMA 5304.
20.462J | Molecular Principles of Biomaterials | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-462j-molecular-principles-of-biomaterials-spring-2006 | textbook:Young, R. J., and P. A. Lovell, eds. "Structure." Chapter 4 in Introduction to Polymers. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2000. 241-309. textbook:———. "Drug Administration and Drug Effectiveness." Chapter 2 in Drug Delivery: Engineering Principles for Drug Therapy (Topics in Chemical Engineering). New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Flory, Paul J. Principles of Polymer Chemistry. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1953, pp. 464-469 and pp. 576-581. textbook:———. Principles of Polymer Chemistry. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1953, pp. 495-507. textbook:Lodish, Harvey, Arnold Berk, Lawrence Zipursky, Paul Matsudaira, David Baltimore, and James Darnell, eds. "The Extracellular Matrix." In Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, October 1999, pp. 1124-1150. textbook:Mann, Stephen. Biomineralization: Principles and Concepts in Bioinorganic Materials Chemistry. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002, chapter 6, pp. 89-102. textbook:Allen, Samuel M., and Edwin L. Thomas. The Structure of Materials (MIT Series in Materials Science and Engineering). New York, NY: Wiley, 1999, pp. 135-138. textbook:Plotkin, Stanley A., Walter A. Orenstein, and Paul A. Offit. "The Immunology of Vaccination." In Vaccines. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 2003, pp. 28-39. textbook:Abbas, Abul K., Andrew H. Lichtman, and Jordan S. Pober. "General Properties of Immune Responses." In Cellular and Molecular Immunology. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Company, 2000. pp. 3-16. level:Graduate instructors:Darrell Irvine term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the analysis and design at a molecular scale of materials used in contact with biological systems, including biotechnology and biomedical engineering. Topics include molecular interactions between bio- and synthetic molecules and surfaces; design, synthesis, and processing approaches for materials that control cell functions; and application of state-of-the-art materials science to problems in tissue engineering, drug delivery, vaccines, and cell-guiding surfaces.
20.482J | Foundations of Algorithms and Computational Techniques in Systems Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-482j-foundations-of-algorithms-and-computational-techniques-in-systems-biology-spring-2006 | textbook:Schlick, T. Molecular Modeling and Simulation: An Interdisciplinary Guide. New York, NY: Springer, 2002. textbook:Allen, M. P., and D. J. Tildesley. Computer Simulation of Liquids. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1989. textbook:Trefethen, L. N., and D. Bau, III. Numerical Linear Algebra. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1997. textbook:Branden, C.-I., and J. Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Routledge, 1999. textbook:Bertero, M., and P. Boccacci. Introduction to Inverse Problems in Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Tidor,  Jacob White term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This subject describes and illustrates computational approaches to solving problems in systems biology. A series of case-studies will be explored that demonstrate how an effective match between the statement of a biological problem and the selection of an appropriate algorithm or computational technique can lead to fundamental advances. The subject will cover several discrete and numerical algorithms used in simulation, feature extraction, and optimization for molecular, network, and systems models in biology.
20.483J | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-56j-noninvasive-imaging-in-biology-and-medicine-fall-2005 | textbook:Bushberg, Jerrold T., J. Anthony Seibert, Edwin M. Leidholdt, Jr., and John M. Boone. The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. textbook:Cho, Z. H., Joie P. Jones, and Manbir Singh. Foundations of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1993. textbook:Phelps, Michael E. PET: Molecular Imaging and Its Biological Applications. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff term:Fall 2005 features: description:22.56J aims to give graduate students and advanced undergraduates background in the theory and application of noninvasive imaging methods to biology and medicine, with emphasis on neuroimaging. The course focuses on the modalities most frequently used in scientific research (X-ray CT, PET/SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging), and includes discussion of molecular imaging approaches used in conjunction with these scanning methods. Lectures by the professor will be supplemented by in-class discussions of problems in research, and hands-on demonstrations of imaging systems.
7.012 | Introduction to Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-012-introduction-to-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:Freeman, Scott. Biological Science. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Claudette Gardel,  Eric Lander,  Robert Weinberg,  Andrew Chess<br/>(Guest Lecturer) term:Fall 2004 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The MIT Biology Department core courses, 7.012, 7.013, and 7.014, all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as, the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material.7.012 focuses on the exploration of current research in cell biology, immunology, neurobiology, genomics, and molecular medicine.AcknowledgmentsThe study materials, problem sets, and quiz materials used during Fall 2004 for 7.012 include contributions from past instructors, teaching assistants, and other members of the MIT Biology Department affiliated with course #7.012. Since the following works have evolved over a period of many years, no single source can be attributed.
7.013 | Introductory Biology		 (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-013-introductory-biology-spring-2006 | textbook:Purves, Orians, Heller, and Sadava. Life: The Science of Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates; Gordonsville, VA: W.H. Freeman and Co., 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Hazel Sive,  Tyler Jacks term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The MIT Biology Department core courses, 7.012, 7.013, and 7.014, all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as, the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material. 7.013 focuses on the application of the fundamental principles toward an understanding of human biology. Topics include genetics, cell biology, molecular biology, disease (infectious agents, inherited diseases and cancer), developmental biology, neurobiology and evolution. Acknowledgments The study materials, problem sets, and quiz materials used during Spring 2005 for 7.013 include contributions from past instructors, teaching assistants, and other members of the MIT Biology Department affiliated with course 7.013. Since the following works have evolved over a period of many years, no single source can be attributed.
7.014 | Introductory Biology		 (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-014-introductory-biology-spring-2005 | textbook:Freeman, Scott. Biological Science. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Graham Walker, Dr. Julia Khodor, Dr. Michelle Mischke,  Penny Chisholm term:Spring 2005 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The MIT Biology Department core courses, 7.012, 7.013, and 7.014, all cover the same core material, which includes the fundamental principles of biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, and cell biology. Biological function at the molecular level is particularly emphasized and covers the structure and regulation of genes, as well as, the structure and synthesis of proteins, how these molecules are integrated into cells, and how these cells are integrated into multicellular systems and organisms. In addition, each version of the subject has its own distinctive material.7.014 focuses on the application of these fundamental principles, toward an understanding of microorganisms as geochemical agents responsible for the evolution and renewal of the biosphere and of their role in human health and disease.AcknowledgementsThe study materials, problem sets, and quiz materials used during Spring 2005 for 7.014 include contributions from past instructors, teaching assistants, and other members of the MIT Biology Department affiliated with course 7.014. Since the following works have evolved over a period of many years, no single source can be attributed.
7.02 | Experimental Biology & Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-02-experimental-biology-communication-spring-2005 | textbook:Purves, William K., et. al. Life: The Science of Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates; Gordonsville, VA: W. H. Freeman and Co., 2003. textbook:Maloy, Stanley R., John E. Cronan, Jr., and David Freifelder. Microbial Genetics. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 1994. textbook:Moran, Laurence A., et. al. Biochemistry. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1994. textbook:Gilbert, Scott F. Developmental Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jonathan King,  Leonard Guarente,  Lisa Steiner,  Uttam RajBhandary term:Spring 2005 features:Demonstration - video description:This introductory biology laboratory course covers the application of experimental techniques in microbiology, biochemistry, cell and developmental biology. Emphasis is placed on the integration of factual knowledge with understanding of the design of the experiments and data analysis in order to prepare the students for future research projects. Development of skills critical for writing about scientific findings in modern biology is also covered in the Scientific Communications portion of the curriculum, 7.02CI.Additional FacultyDr. Katherine Bacon SchneiderDr. Jean-Francois HamelMs. Deborah KruzelDr. Megan Rokop
7.02CI | Experimental Biology - Communications Intensive | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-02ci-experimental-biology-communications-intensive-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Marilee Ogren-Balkema, Dr. Neal Lerner term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course is the scientific communications portion of course 7.02, Experimental Biology and Communication. Students develop their skills as writers of scientific research, skills that also contribute to the learning of the 7.02 course materials. Through in class and out of class writing exercises, students explore the genre of the research article and its components while developing an understanding of the materials covered in the 7.02 laboratory.
7.03 | Genetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-03-genetics-fall-2004 | textbook:Griffiths, Anthony J. F., Jeffrey H. Miller, David T. Suzuki, Richard C. Lewontin, and William M. Gelbart. An Introduction to Genetic Analysis. 7th ed. New York: W. H. Freeman, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:Chris Kaiser,  Gerald Fink,  Leona Samson, Dr. Michelle Mischke term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course discusses the principles of genetics with application to the study of biological function at the level of molecules, cells, and multicellular organisms, including humans. The topics include: structure and function of genes, chromosomes and genomes, biological variation resulting from recombination, mutation, and selection, population genetics, use of genetic methods to analyze protein function, gene regulation and inherited disease.
7.06 | Cell Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-06-cell-biology-spring-2007 | textbook:The required textbook for this course is:  Lodish, et al. Molecular Cell Biology. 5th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Hidde Ploegh,  Terry Orr-Weaver term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course deals with the biology of cells of higher organisms: The structure, function, and biosynthesis of cellular membranes and organelles; cell growth and oncogenic transformation; transport, receptors, and cell signaling; the cytoskeleton, the extracellular matrix, and cell movements; chromatin structure and RNA synthesis.
7.08J | Biological Chemistry II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-08j-biological-chemistry-ii-spring-2004 | textbook:Readings by lecture session (L#) are listed in the table below. Many of the readings are from the required textbook:  Voet, D., J. Voet. Biochemistry. New York: J. Wiley & Sons, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:JoAnne Stubbe,  Alice Ting term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course deals with a more advanced treatment of the biochemical mechanisms that underlie biological processes. Emphasis will be given&nbsp;to the experimental methods used to unravel how these processes fit into the cellular context as well as the coordinated regulation of these processes. Topics include macromolecular machines for energy and force transduction, regulation of biosynthetic and degradative pathways, and the structure and function of nucleic acids.
7.13 | Experimental Microbial Genetics		 (Fall 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-13-experimental-microbial-genetics-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dianne Newman, Dr. Janis Melvold, Dr. Laura Croal,  Michael Laub term:Fall 2008 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:In this class, students engage in independent research projects to probe various aspects of the physiology of the bacterium&nbsp;Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA14, an opportunistic pathogen isolated from the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients. Students use molecular genetics to examine survival in stationary phase, antibiotic resistance, phase variation, toxin production, and secondary metabolite production.Projects aim to discover the molecular basis for these processes using both classical and cutting-edge techniques. These include plasmid manipulation, genetic complementation, mutagenesis, PCR, DNA sequencing, enzyme assays, and gene expression studies. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication are also emphasized.WARNING NOTICEThe experiments described in these materials are potentially hazardous and require a high level of safety training, special facilities and equipment, and supervision by appropriate individuals. You bear the sole responsibility, liability, and risk for the implementation of such safety procedures and measures. MIT shall have no responsibility, liability, or risk for the content or implementation of any of the material presented.Legal Notice
7.13 | Experimental Microbial Genetics		 (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-13-experimental-microbial-genetics-fall-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Janis Melvold, Dr. Philip Lessard,  Anthony Sinskey term:Fall 2003 features:Projects and examples description:Also referred to as the Microbial Genetics Project Lab, this is a hands-on research course designed to introduce the student to the strategies and challenges associated with microbiology research. Students take on independent and original research projects that are designed to be instructive with the goal of advancing a specific field of research in microbiology.
7.16 | Experimental Molecular Biology: Biotechnology II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-16-experimental-molecular-biology-biotechnology-ii-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Sabatini, Dr. Marilee Ogren-Balkema, Dr. Alice Rushforth term:Spring 2005 features:Demonstration - video description:The course applies molecular biology and reverse genetics approaches to the study of apoptosis, or programmed cell death (PCD), in Drosophila cells. RNA interference (RNAi), or double stranded RNA-mediated gene silencing, will be used to inhibit expression of candidate apoptosis-related genes in cultured Drosophila cells. Teams of 2 or 3 students will design and carry out experiments to address questions about the genes involved in the regulation and execution of PCD in this system. Some projects involve the use of DNA damaging agents or other cytotoxic chemicals or drugs to help understand the pathways that control a cell's decision to undergo apoptosis. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication are provided.
7.18 | Topics in Experimental Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-18-topics-in-experimental-biology-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Karen Pepper, Dr. Leslie Ann Roldan,  Paul T. Matsudaira,  Anthony Sinskey term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This independent experimental study course is designed to allow students with a strong interest in independent research to fulfill the project laboratory requirement for the Biology Department Program in the context of a research laboratory at MIT. The research should be a continuation of a previous project under the direction of a member of the Biology Department faculty.This course provides instruction and practice in written and oral communication. Journal club discussions are used to help students evaluate and write scientific papers.
7.22 | Developmental Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-22-developmental-biology-fall-2005 | textbook:Wolpert, Lewis. Principles of Development. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Kalthoff, Klaus. Analysis of Biological Development. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill, 2001. textbook:Slack, J. M. W. Essential Developmental Biology. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 2001. textbook:Gerhart, John, and Marc Kirschner. Cells, Embryos, and Evolution: Toward a Cellular and Developmental Understanding of Phenotypic Variation and Evolutionary Adaptability. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 1997. textbook:Russo, V. E. A., et al., eds. Development: Genetics, Epigenetics, and Environmental Regulation. New York, NY: Springer, 1999. textbook:Arias, Alfonso Martinez, and Alison Stewart. Molecular Principles of Animal Development. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Rao, Mahendra S., and Marcus Jacobson, eds. Developmental Neurobiology. 4th ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Hazel Sive,  Martha Constantine-Paton term:Fall 2005 features:Assignments and solutions description:This graduate and advanced undergraduate level lecture and literature discussion course covers the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms that regulate animal development. Evolutionary mechanisms are emphasized as well as the discussion of relevant diseases. Vertebrate (mouse, chick, frog, fish) and invertebrate (fly, worm) models are covered. Specific topics include formation of early body plan, cell type determination, organogenesis, morphogenesis, stem cells, cloning, and issues in human development.
7.27 | Principles of Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-27-principles-of-human-disease-spring-2006 | textbook:Janeway, Charles A., Jr., Paul Travers, Mark Walport, and Mark J. Shlomchik. Immunobiology. 5th ed. New York, NY: Garland Publishing, 2001. textbook:Strachan, Tom, and Andrew P. Read. Human Molecular Genetics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons Inc., 1999. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Housman,  Jacqueline Lees term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course covers current understanding of, and modern approaches to human disease, emphasizing the molecular and cellular basis of both genetic disease and cancer. Topics include: The Genetics of Simple and Complex Traits; Karyotypic Analysis and Positional Cloning; Genetic Diagnosis; The Roles of Oncogenes and Tumor Suppressors in Tumor Initiation, Progression, and Treatment; The Interaction between Genetics and Environment; Animal Models of Human Disease; Cancer; and Conventional and Gene Therapy Treatment Strategies.
7.28 | Molecular Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-28-molecular-biology-spring-2005 | textbook:Watson, James D., Tania A. Baker, Stephen P. Bell, Alexander Gann, Michael Levine, Richard Losick. Molecular Biology of the Gene. 5th ed. San Francisco, CA: Pearson/Benjamin Cummings, 2003. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Biology Department Faculty term:Spring 2005 features:Exams and solutions description:This course covers a detailed analysis of the biochemical mechanisms that control the maintenance, expression, and evolution of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genomes. The topics covered in lectures and readings of relevant literature include gene regulation, DNA replication, genetic recombination, and mRNA translation. In particular, the logic of experimental design and data analysis is emphasized.
7.30J | Ecology I: The Earth System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-018j-ecology-i-the-earth-system-fall-2009 | textbook:Remmert, Hermann. "Ecology: the Basic Concept." In Ecology. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag Berlin, 1980. textbook:Morton, Oliver. "Introduction." In Eating the Sun. London, UK: Fourth Estate, 2008, pp. xi-xix. level:Undergraduate instructors:Edward DeLong,  Penny Chisholm term:Fall 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:We will cover fundamentals of ecology, considering Earth as an integrated dynamic system. Topics include coevolution of the biosphere, geosphere, atmosphere and oceans; photosynthesis and respiration; the hydrologic, carbon and nitrogen cycles. We will examine the flow of energy and materials through ecosystems; regulation of the distribution and abundance of organisms; structure and function of ecosystems, including evolution and natural selection; metabolic diversity; productivity; trophic dynamics; models of population growth, competition, mutualism and predation. This course is designated as Communication-Intensive; instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Biology is a recommended prerequisite.
7.32 | Systems Biology		 (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2014 | textbook:[UA] =  Alon, U. An Introduction to Systems Biology: Design Principles of Biological Circuits. Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2006. textbook:[MN] =  Nowak, M. A. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Belknap Press, 2006. textbook:[BA] =  Alberts, B., et al. Essential Cell Biology. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 2009. textbook:[SS] =  Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Westview Press, 2014. textbook:Edelstein-Keshet, L. Sections 6.2, 6.6, and 6.7 in Mathematical Models in Biology. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an introduction to cellular and population-level systems biology with an emphasis on synthetic biology, modeling of genetic networks, cell-cell interactions, and evolutionary dynamics. Cellular systems include genetic switches and oscillators, network motifs, genetic network evolution, and cellular decision-making. Population-level systems include models of pattern formation, cell-cell communication, and evolutionary systems biology.
7.340 | Regenerative Medicine: from Bench to Bedside | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-regenerative-medicine-from-bench-to-bedside-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Petra Simic term:Spring 2010 features: description:Regenerative medicine involves the repair and regeneration of tissues for therapeutic purposes, such as replacing bone marrow in leukemia, cartilage in osteoarthritis or cells of the heart after a heart attack. In this course, we will explore basic mechanisms of how cells differentiate into specific tissues in response to a variety of biologic signaling molecules. We will discuss the use of such factors for in vitro tissue production. We will also study the cellular mechanisms involved in the cloning of animals and how Scottish researchers produced the sheep Dolly using the nucleus of a mammary gland cell from an adult sheep. We will read papers describing organ production, such as the in vitro formation of beating heart cells. We will also consider the molecular bases of cellular tissue remodeling to correct these changes. We will discuss how studies of the developmental, cellular and molecular biology of regeneration have led to the discovery of new drugs. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars  offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Learning and Memory: Activity-Controlled Gene Expression in the Nervous System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-learning-and-memory-activity-controlled-gene-expression-in-the-nervous-system-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sven Loebrich term:Fall 2009 features: description:The mammalian brain easily outperforms any computer. It adapts and changes constantly. Most importantly, the brain enables us to continuously learn and remember. What are the molecular mechanisms that lead to learning and memory? What are the cellular roles that activity-regulated gene products play to implement changes in the brain?How do nerve cells, their connections (synapses), and brain circuits change over time to store information? We will discuss the molecular mechanisms of neuronal plasticity at the synaptic, cellular and circuit levels, especiallysynapse formation,synaptic growth and stabilization,synaptic transmission,axonal and dendritic outgrowth, andcircuit formationWe will learn about the roles of some activity-regulated genes as well as the tools and techniques employed in modern neuroscience. Our goal will be to understand molecular mechanisms the brain employs to accomplish learning and memory.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Under the Radar Screen: How Bugs Trick Our Immune Defenses | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-under-the-radar-screen-how-bugs-trick-our-immune-defenses-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Gijsbert Grotenbreg, Dr. Marie-Eve Paquet term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course, we will explore the specific ways by which microbes defeat our immune system and the molecular mechanisms that are under attack (phagocytosis, the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway, MHC I/II antigen presentation). Through our discussion and dissection of the primary research literature, we will explore aspects of host-pathogen interactions. We will particularly emphasize the experimental techniques used in the field and how to read and understand research data. Technological advances in the fight against microbes will also be discussed, with specific examples. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Avoiding Genomic Instability: DNA Replication, the Cell Cycle, and Cancer | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-avoiding-genomic-instability-dna-replication-the-cell-cycle-and-cancer-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. John Randell, Dr. Robyn Tanny term:Fall 2006 features: description:In this class we will learn about how the process of DNA replication is regulated throughout the cell cycle and what happens when DNA replication goes awry. How does the cell know when and where to begin replicating its DNA? How does a cell prevent its DNA from being replicated more than once? How does damaged DNA cause the cell to arrest DNA replication until that damage has been repaired? And how is the duplication of the genome coordinated with other essential processes? We will examine both classical and current papers from the scientific literature to provide answers to these questions and to gain insights into how biologists have approached such problems. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.340 | Nano-life: An Introduction to Virus Structure and Assembly | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-nano-life-an-introduction-to-virus-structure-and-assembly-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Melissa Kosinski-Collins, Dr. Peter Weigele term:Fall 2005 features: description:Watson and Crick noted that the size of a viral genome was insufficient to encode a protein large enough to encapsidate it and reasoned, therefore that a virus shell must be composed of multiple, but identical subunits. Today, high resolution structures of virus capsids reveal the basis of this genetic economy as a highly symmetrical structure, much like a geodesic dome composed of protein subunits. Crystallographic structures and cryo-electron microscopy reconstructions combined with molecular data are beginning to reveal how these nano-structures are built. Topics covered in the course will include basic principles of virus structure and symmetry, capsid assembly, strategies for enclosing nucleic acid, proteins involved in entry and exit, and the life cycles of well understood pathogens such as HIV, influenza, polio, and Herpes. A review of cutting edge structural methods is also covered. This course is one of many Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.340 | Ubiquitination: The Proteasome and Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-ubiquitination-the-proteasome-and-human-disease-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Marta Rubio term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. This seminar provides a deeper understanding of the post-translational mechanisms evolved by eukaryotic cells to target proteins for degradation. Students learn how proteins are recognized and degraded by specific machinery (the proteasome) through their previous tagging with another small protein, ubiquitin. Additional topics include principles of ubiquitin-proteasome function, its control of the most important cellular pathways, and the implication of this system in different human diseases. Finally, speculation on the novel techniques that arose from an increased knowledge of the ubiquitin-proteosome system and current applications in the design of new pharmacological agents to battle disease is also covered.
7.340 | Immune Evasion: How Sneaky Pathogens Avoid Host Surveillance | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-340-immune-evasion-how-sneaky-pathogens-avoid-host-surveillance-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Dina Gould Halme term:Spring 2004 features: description:Every infection consists of a battle between the invading pathogen and the resisting host. To be successful, a pathogen must escape the many defenses of the host immune system until it can replicate and spread to another host. A pathogen must prevent one of three stages of immune function: detection, activation, or effector function. Examples of disease-specific immune evasion and the mechanisms used by pathogens to prevail over their hosts' immune systems are discussed. Also considered is what these host-pathogen interactions reveal about the normal function of the immune system and basic cell biological processes, such as protein maturation and degradation.
7.341 | Bench to Bedside: Molecularly Targeted Therapies in Blood Disorders and Malignancy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-bench-to-bedside-molecularly-targeted-therapies-in-blood-disorders-and-malignancy-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Johan Flygare, Dr. Bill Wong term:Fall 2009 features: description:Where do new drugs and treatments come from? This class will take you from the test tubes and mice of the laboratory to the treatment of patients with deadly blood disorders. Students will learn how to think as a scientist through discussion of primary research papers describing the discoveries of several novel treatments. Topics such as gene therapy, the potential of drugs based on RNA interference and the reprogramming of somatic cells into stem cells for regenerative medicine will be discussed. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.341 | The DNA Damage Response as a Target for Anti-Cancer Therapy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-the-dna-damage-response-as-a-target-for-anti-cancer-therapy-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Hans Christian Reinhardt term:Fall 2008 features: description:Cellular responses to DNA damage constitute one of the most important fields in cancer biology. In this class we will analyze classical and recent papers from the primary research literature to gain a profound understand of cell cycle regulation and DNA damage checkpoints that act as powerful emergency brakes to prevent cancer. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.341 | Brightening up Life: Harnessing the Power of Fluorescence Imaging to Observe Biology in Action | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-brightening-up-life-harnessing-the-power-of-fluorescence-imaging-to-observe-biology-in-action-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Mark Howarth, Dr. Anthony Leung term:Fall 2006 features: description:One summer in the 1960s a young Japanese researcher, with the help of a few high school students, chopped up ten thousand jellyfish. As a by-product of this harvest, they isolated a green fluorescent protein (GFP). Since then, GFP has triggered a revolution in our understanding of gene expression and signaling in live cells. In this seminar, we will examine how this small protein generates fluorescence, i.e. absorbs light of one wavelength and emits light of a longer wavelength. We will discuss how the color palette has been extended from green to blue, red and many other colors, based on protein engineering of GFP and the study of vividly colorful coral reefs. We will then investigate how these fluorescent proteins can be used to track the motion of DNA, RNA and protein in living cells, as well as to see waves of signaling molecules propagate across a cell. GFP is also a powerful tool for fluorescent imaging of whole organisms, from worms to mice, and we will see how it has been used in tracking the spread of cancer cells, controlling malaria and in understanding how neuronal connections form. In this seminar, we will explore this wonderful protein as well as other important methods and reagents for fluorescent imaging. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | The X in Sex: A Genetic, Medical, and Evolutionary View of the X Chromosome | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-the-x-in-sex-a-genetic-medical-and-evolutionary-view-of-the-x-chromosome-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Jacob Mueller term:Fall 2009 features: description:This course will explore a diverse collection of striking biological phenomena associated with the X chromosome. We will examine the genetic basis and significance of several X-linked mutations. We will also discuss why men are more likely than women to display X-linked traits. We will look at the different mechanisms by which X chromosome gene expression is equalized in mammals, flies, and worms and how these mechanisms can yield unusual phenotypes. Throughout our discussions of the X chromosome we will use both recent and classic primary research papers to learn about this chromosome's fascinating biology. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Systems Biology: Stochastic Processes and Biological Robustness | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-systems-biology-stochastic-processes-and-biological-robustness-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jeff Gore, Dr. Arjun Raj term:Fall 2008 features: description:In this seminar, we will discuss some of the main themes that have arisen in the field of systems biology, including the concepts of robustness, stochastic cell-to-cell variability, and the evolution of molecular interactions within complex networks. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Developmental and Molecular Biology of Regeneration | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-developmental-and-molecular-biology-of-regeneration-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Christian Petersen term:Spring 2008 features: description:How does a regenerating animal &quot;know&quot; what's missing? How are stem cells or differentiated cells used to create new tissues during regeneration? In this class we will take a comparative approach to explore this fascinating problem by critically examining classic and modern scientific literature about the developmental and molecular biology of regeneration. We will learn about conserved developmental pathways that are necessary for regeneration, and we will discuss the relevance of these findings for regenerative medicine. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Chronic Infection and Inflammation: What are the Consequences on Your Health? | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-chronic-infection-and-inflammation-what-are-the-consequences-on-your-health-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Eva Frickel, Dr. Sara Gredmark term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course we will explore the new emerging field of pathogen-induced chronic diseases. Work in this field has redefined the causes of some major disorders, such as ulcers. By reading the primary research literature we will learn about the molecular mechanisms through which pathogens cause disease. The diseases that we cover will be introduced with a short patient case study. We will discuss the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and gastric disease, HPV and cervical cancer, hepatitis C virus and liver disease, Epstein-Barr virus and lymphoma, Cytomegalovirus and atherosclerosis, as well as diabetes and multiple sclerosis. We will study technical advances in the fight against microbes and explore future directions for new treatment strategies of chronic infections and inflammation. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | G-Protein Coupled Receptors: Vision and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-g-protein-coupled-receptors-vision-and-disease-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Parvathi Kota term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:How do we communicate with the outside world? How are our senses of vision, smell, taste and pain controlled at the cellular and molecular levels? What causes medical conditions like allergies, hypertension, depression, obesity and various central nervous system disorders? G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) provide a major part of the answer to all of these questions. GPCRs constitute the largest family of cell-surface receptors and in humans are encoded by more than 1,000 genes. GPCRs convert extracellular messages into intracellular responses and are involved in essentially all physiological processes. GPCR dysfunction results in numerous human disorders, and over 50% of all prescription drugs on the market today directly or indirectly target GPCRs. In this course, we will discuss GPCR signal transduction pathways, GPCR oligomerization and the diseases caused by GPCR dysfunction. We will study the structure and function of rhodopsin, a dim-light photoreceptor and a well-studied GPCR that converts light into electric impulses sent to the brain and leads to vision. We will also discuss how mutations in rhodopsin cause retinal degeneration and congenital night blindness. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Reading the Blueprint of Life:  Transcription, Stem Cells and Differentiation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-reading-the-blueprint-of-life-transcription-stem-cells-and-differentiation-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Matthew Guenther, Dr. Roshan Kumar term:Fall 2006 features: description:In this course, we will address how transcriptional regulators both prohibit and drive differentiation during the course of development. How does a stem cell know when to remain a stem cell and when to become a specific cell type? Are there global differences in the way the genome is read in multipotent and terminally differentiated cells? We will explore how stem cell pluripotency is preserved, how master regulators of cell-fate decisions execute developmental programs, and how chromatin regulators control undifferentiated versus differentiated states. Additionally, we will discuss how aberrant regulation of transcriptional regulators produces disorders such as developmental defects and cancer.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.342 | Cancer Biology: From Basic Research to the Clinic | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-342-cancer-biology-from-basic-research-to-the-clinic-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Carla Kim, Dr. Kevin Haigis term:Fall 2004 features: description:This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. In 1971, President Nixon declared the &quot;War on Cancer,&quot; but after three decades the war is still raging. How much progress have we made toward winning the war and what are we doing to improve the fight? Understanding the molecular and cellular events involved in tumor formation, progression, and metastasis is crucial to the development of innovative therapy for cancer patients. Insights into these processes have been gleaned through basic research using biochemical, molecular, and genetic analysis in yeast, C. elegans, mice, and cell culture models. We will explore the laboratory tools and techniques used to perform cancer research, major discoveries in cancer biology, and the medical implications of these breakthroughs. A focus of the class will be critical analysis of the primary literature to foster understanding of the strengths and limitations of various approaches to cancer research. Special attention will be made to the clinical implications of cancer research performed in model organisms and the prospects for ending the battle with this devastating disease.
7.343 | When Development Goes Awry: How Cancer Co-opts Mechanisms of Embryogensis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-when-development-goes-awry-how-cancer-co-opts-mechanisms-of-embryogensis-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Etienne Meylan, Dr. Trudy Oliver term:Fall 2009 features: description:During this course, we will study the similarities between cancer and normal development to understand how tumors co-opt normal developmental processes to facilitate cancer initiation, maintenance and progression. We will examine critical signaling pathways that govern these processes and, importantly, how some of these pathways hold promise as therapeutic targets for cancer treatment. We will discuss how future treatments might be personalized to target cancer cells in specific patients. We will also consider examples of newly-approved drugs that have dramatically helped patients combat this devastating disease. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Sophisticated Survival Skills of Simple Microorganisms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-sophisticated-survival-skills-of-simple-microorganisms-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Adrienne Dolberry term:Spring 2008 features: description:In this course, we will discuss the microbial physiology and genetics of stress responses in aquatic ecosystems, astrobiology, bacterial pathogenesis and other environments. We will learn about classical and novel methods utilized by researchers to uncover bacterial mechanisms induced under both general and environment-specific stresses. Finally, we will compare and contrast models for bacterial stress responses to gain an understanding of distinct mechanisms of survival and of why there are differences among bacterial genera. This course is one of many Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.343 | The Radical Consequences of Respiration: Reactive Oxygen Species in Aging and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-the-radical-consequences-of-respiration-reactive-oxygen-species-in-aging-and-disease-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Priyamvada Rai term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course&nbsp;will start with a survey of basic oxygen radical biochemistry followed by a discussion of the mechanisms of action of cellular as well as dietary antioxidants. After considering the normal physiological roles of oxidants, we will examine the effects of elevated ROS and a failure of cellular redox capacity on the rate of organismal and cellular aging as well as on the onset and progression of several major diseases that are often age-related. Topics will include ROS-induced effects on stem cell regeneration, insulin resistance, heart disease, neurodegenerative disorders, and cancer. The role of antioxidants in potential therapeutic strategies for modulating ROS levels will also be discussed. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Neuron-glial Cell Interactions in Biology and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-neuron-glial-cell-interactions-in-biology-and-disease-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Bikem Akten term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:The main goal of this seminar will be to study the nervous system from the perspective of neuron-glia interactions. In each class, we will focus on one type of glial cell and discuss its origin, classification and function within the nervous system. Current findings concerning diseases associated with each type of glial cell will be discussed. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Photosynthesis: Life from Light | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-photosynthesis-life-from-light-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Peter Weigele, Dr. Yongting Wang term:Fall 2006 features: description:In this course, you will journey through the web of physical, chemical, and biological reactions that collectively constitute photosynthesis. We will begin with light harvesting and follow photons to the sites of primary photochemistry: the photoreaction centers. A molecular-scale view will show in atomic detail how these protein complexes capture and energize electrons. Then we will follow the multiple pathways electrons take as they carry out their work. Consequent reactions, such as the synthesis of ATP and the reduction of CO2 during the synthesis of carbohydrates, will also be discussed in structural detail. Lastly, we will delve into the evolution of these systems and also discuss other photosynthetic strategies, such as light-driven proton pumps and anoxygenic photosynthesis. The course will include a visit to an electron microscope to allow students to directly observe proteins involved in photosynthesis. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | A Love-Hate Relationship: Cholesterol in Health and Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-a-love-hate-relationship-cholesterol-in-health-and-disease-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ayce Yesilaltay term:Fall 2005 features: description:In this class, we will examine cholesterol's role in the cell and in the body as a whole, from its function as a structural component of the membrane to its function in signaling. We will discuss mechanisms of cholesterol sensing, mechanisms of feedback regulation in cells, cholesterol in the brain, cholesterol in the circulation, 'good cholesterol' and 'bad cholesterol,' cholesterol-related human disorders, and the drugs that deal with some of these disorders. This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.343 | Protein Folding, Misfolding and Human Disease | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-343-protein-folding-misfolding-and-human-disease-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Melissa Kosinski-Collins term:Fall 2004 features: description:This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. The instructor for this course, Dr. Kosinski-Collins, is a member of the HHMI Education Group. Maintenance of the complex three-dimensional structure adopted by a protein in the cell is vital for function. Oftentimes, as a consequence of environmental stress, genetic mutation, and/or infection, the folded structure of a protein gets altered and multiple proteins stick and fall out of solution in a process known as aggregation. In many protein aggregation diseases, incorrectly folded proteins self-associate, forming fiber-like aggregates that cause brain cell death and dementia. In this course, the molecular and biochemical basis of the prion diseases, which include bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad cow disease), Creutzfedt-Jakob disease and kuru will be examined. Also discussed are other classes of misfolding diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. The proteins involved in all of these disorders and how the proteins' three dimensional structures change during the course of these afflictions is covered as well as why prions from certain species cannot infect animals from other species based on protein sequence and structure. The course will then address possible detection methods and therapies that are under development to treat some of the protein aggregation diseases.
7.344 | Tumor Suppressor Gene p53: How the Guardian of our Genome Prevents Cancer | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-tumor-suppressor-gene-p53-how-the-guardian-of-our-genome-prevents-cancer-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Wen Xue term:Fall 2010 features: description:Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide. Cancer involves uncontrolled cell growth, resistance to cell death, failure to differentiate into a particular cell type, and increased cellular motility. A family of gate-keeper genes, known as tumor suppressor genes, plays important roles in preventing the initiation and progression of cancer. Among these, p53 is the most famous. Because of its essential role in maintaining genomic integrity, p53 is often called the guardian of the genome. During this course, we will study how p53 serves as a pivotal tumor suppressor gene in preventing cancer.This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | Directed Evolution: Engineering Biocatalysts | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-directed-evolution-engineering-biocatalysts-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Kerry Love term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes description:Directed evolution has been used to produce enzymes with many unique properties. The technique of directed evolution comprises two essential steps: mutagenesis of the gene encoding the enzyme to produce a library of variants, and selection of a particular variant based on its desirable catalytic properties. In this course we will examine what kinds of enzymes are worth evolving and the strategies used for library generation and enzyme selection. We will focus on those enzymes that are used in the synthesis of drugs and in biotechnological applications. This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced Undergraduate Seminars&nbsp;offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | The Fountain of Life: From Dolly to Customized Embryonic Stem Cells | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-the-fountain-of-life-from-dolly-to-customized-embryonic-stem-cells-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Alexander Meissner term:Fall 2007 features: description:During development, the genetic content of each cell remains, with a few exceptions, identical to that of the zygote. Most differentiated cells therefore retain all of the genetic information necessary to generate an entire organism. It was through pioneering technology of somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) that this concept was experimentally proven. Only 10 years ago the sheep Dolly was the first mammal to be cloned from an adult organism, demonstrating that the differentiated state of a mammalian cell can be fully reversible to a pluripotent embryonic state. A key conclusion from these experiments was that the difference between pluripotent cells such as embryonic stem (ES) cells and unipotent differentiated cells is solely a consequence of reversible changes. These changes, which have proved to involve reversible alterations to both DNA and to proteins that bind DNA, are known as epigenetic, to distinguish them from genetic alterations to DNA sequence. In this course we will explore such epigenetic changes and study different approaches that can return a differentiated cell to an embryonic state in a process referred to as epigenetic reprogramming, which will ultimately allow generation of patient-specific stem cells and application to regenerative therapy. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | Antibiotics, Toxins, and Protein Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-antibiotics-toxins-and-protein-engineering-spring-2007 | textbook:Berg, Jeremy, John Tymoczko, and Lubert Stryer. Biochemistry. 5th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 2006, chapter 29. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Caroline Koehrer, Dr. Mandana Sassanfar term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:The lethal poison Ricin (best known as a weapon of bioterrorism), Diphtheria toxin (the causative agent of a highly contagious bacterial disease), and the widely used antibiotic tetracycline have one thing in common: They specifically target the cell's translational apparatus and disrupt protein synthesis. In this course, we will explore the mechanisms of action of toxins and antibiotics, their roles in everyday medicine, and the emergence and spread of drug resistance. We will also discuss the identification of new drug targets and how we can manipulate the protein synthesis machinery to provide powerful tools for protein engineering and potential new treatments for patients with devastating diseases, such as cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.344 | RNA Interference: A New Tool for Genetic Analysis and Therapeutics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-344-rna-interference-a-new-tool-for-genetic-analysis-and-therapeutics-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Stephane Kissler, Dr. Andrea Ventura term:Fall 2004 features: description:This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. To understand and treat any disease with a genetic basis or predisposition, scientists and clinicians need effective ways of manipulating the levels of genes and gene products. Conventional methods for the genetic modification of many experimental organisms are technically demanding and time consuming. Just over 5 years ago, a new mechanism of gene-silencing, termed RNA interference (RNAi), was discovered. In addition to being a fascinating biological process, RNAi provides a revolutionary technology that has already changed the way biomedical research is done and that may even prove useful for genetic interventions in a clinical context. In this course, students learn how RNAi was discovered, how it works, and what its physiological relevance might be. How RNAi can be harnessed to modulate gene expression and perform genetic screens, both in cells and in various organisms is also covered. Finally, this course examines the first attempts to use RNAi for the treatment of models of human diseases in experimental animals.
7.345 | Survival in Extreme Conditions: The Bacterial Stress Response | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-survival-in-extreme-conditions-the-bacterial-stress-response-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Celeste Peterson term:Fall 2010 features: description:Bacteria survive in almost all environments on Earth, including some considered extremely harsh. From the steaming hot springs of Yellowstone to the frozen tundra of the arctic to the barren deserts of Chile, microbes have been found thriving. Their tenacity to survive in such extreme and varied conditions allows them to play fundamental roles in global nutrient cycling. Microbes also cause a wide range of human diseases and can survive inhospitable conditions found in the human body. In this course, we will examine the molecular systems that bacteria use to adapt to changes in their environment. We will consider stresses commonly encountered, such as starvation, oxidative stress and heat shock, and also discuss how the adaptive responses affect the evolution of the bacteria.  This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | Vascular Development in Life, Disease and Cancer Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-vascular-development-in-life-disease-and-cancer-medicine-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Alexandra Naba, Dr. Christopher Turner term:Fall 2009 features: description:The growth of blood vessels, a process known as angiogenesis, is one of the earliest events in mammalian development and is regulated by a sensitive interplay of growth factors and other molecules. In this course, we will discuss the key molecular regulators of blood vessel development as well as the techniques and experimental systems that have been utilized by vascular biologists. We will also examine the success of several anti-angiogenic treatments that have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), that inhibit the pro-angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor, VEGF, and that are now being used to treat age-related macular degeneration. Finally, we will explore how during the course of cancer progression, establishment of a blood supply into a tumor can lead to the growth and spread of cancer cells to secondary sites. We will discuss the caveats and potential pitfalls of targeting tumor blood vessels to starve cancer cells and prevent the spread of cancer, which remains one of the leading causes of death in the USA. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.345 | Evolution of the Immune System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-345-evolution-of-the-immune-system-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Nadia Danilova term:Spring 2005 features: description:In this course, evolutionary pathways that have led to the development of innate and adaptive immunity are analyzed, the conserved and unique features of the immune response from bacteria to higher vertebrates is traced, and factors, such as adaptive changes in pathogens that have shaped the evolution of immune system are identified.This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.346 | RNAi: A Revolution in Biology and Therapeutics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-rnai-a-revolution-in-biology-and-therapeutics-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Allan Gurtan, Dr. Michael Goldberg term:Spring 2010 features: description:Despite centuries of effort, modern medicine still struggles to find the source of disease and to provide specific treatment without side effects. Both traditional small molecules and protein-based therapeutics have achieved only limited success. What is the next therapeutic frontier? The answer may be RNA interference. In this course, we will focus on the therapeutic potential of RNAi. We will discuss its discovery functions in normal biological processes, utility as an experimental tool, potential for therapeutic use, and pursuit by the biotechnology industry. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.346 | Synaptic Plasticity and Memory, from Molecules to Behavior | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-346-synaptic-plasticity-and-memory-from-molecules-to-behavior-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ariel Kamsler term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course we will discover how innovative technologies combined with profound hypotheses have given rise to our current understanding of neuroscience. We will study both new and classical primary research papers with a focus on the plasticity between synapses in a brain structure called the hippocampus, which is believed to underlie the ability to create and retrieve certain classes of memories. We will discuss the basic electrical properties of neurons and how they fire. We will see how firing properties can change with experience, and we will study the biochemical basis of these changes. We will learn how molecular biology can be used to specifically change the biochemical properties of brain circuits, and we will see how these circuits form a representation of space giving rise to complex behaviors in living animals. A special emphasis will be given to understanding why specific experiments were done and how to design experiments that will answer the questions you have about the brain. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.347 | Fueling Sustainability: Engineering Microbial Systems for Biofuel Production | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-347-fueling-sustainability-engineering-microbial-systems-for-biofuel-production-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Michelle O'Malley term:Spring 2011 features: description:The need to identify sustainable forms of energy as an alternative to our dependence on depleting worldwide oil reserves is one of the grand challenges of our time. The energy from the sun converted into plant biomass is the most promising renewable resource available to humanity. This seminar will examine each of the critical steps along the pathway towards the conversion of plant biomass into ethanol. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.349 | From Molecules to Behavior:  Synaptic Neurophysiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-349-from-molecules-to-behavior-synaptic-neurophysiology-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Alex Chubykin term:Spring 2010 features: description:Like transistors in a computer, synapses perform complex computations and connect the brain's non-linear processing elements (neurons) into a functional circuit. Understanding the role of synapses in neuronal computation is essential to understanding how the brain works. In this course students will be introduced to cutting-edge research in the field of synaptic neurophysiology. The course will cover such topics as synapse formation, synaptic function, synaptic plasticity, the roles of synapses in higher cognitive processes and how synaptic dysfunction can lead to disease. This course is one of many Advanced Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT. These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using primary research literature to discuss and learn about current biological research in a highly interactive setting. Many instructors of the Advanced Undergraduate Seminars are postdoctoral scientists with a strong interest in teaching.
7.349 | Biological Computing: At the Crossroads of Engineering and Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-349-biological-computing-at-the-crossroads-of-engineering-and-science-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Julia Khodor term:Spring 2005 features: description:Imagine you are a salesman needing to visit 100 cities connected by a set of roads. Can you do it while stopping in each city only once? Even a supercomputer working at 1 trillion operations per second would take longer than the age of the universe to find a solution when considering each possibility in turn. In 1994, Leonard Adleman published a paper in which he described a solution, using the tools of molecular biology, for a smaller 7-city example of this problem. His paper generated enormous scientific and public interest, and kick-started the field of Biological Computing, the main subject of this discussion based seminar course. Students will analyze the Adleman paper, and the papers that preceded and followed it, with an eye for identifying the engineering and scientific aspects of each paper, emphasizing the interplay of these two approaches in the field of Biological Computing. This course is appropriate for both biology and non-biology majors. Care will be taken to fill in any knowledge gaps for both scientists and engineers.This course is one of many&nbsp;Advanced  Undergraduate Seminars offered by the Biology Department at MIT.  These seminars are tailored for students with an interest in using  primary research literature to discuss and learn about current  biological research in a highly interactive setting.
7.38J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
7.391 | Concept-Centered Teaching		 (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-391-concept-centered-teaching-spring-2006 | textbook:Morgan, Elisa. Bio2010: Transforming Undergraduate Education for Future Research Biologists. National Academy of Sciences. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2003. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Dr. Melissa Kosinski-Collins term:Spring 2006 features: description:Do you like teaching, but find yourself frustrated by how little students seem to learn? Would you like to try teaching, but are nervous about whether you will be any good at it? Are you interested in new research on science education? Research in science education shows that the greatest obstacle to student learning is the failure to identify and confront the misconceptions with which the students enter the class or those that they acquire during their studies. This weekly seminar course focuses on developing the participants' ability to uncover and confront student misconceptions and to foster student understanding and retention of key concepts. Participants read primary literature on science education, uncover basic concepts often overlooked when teaching biology, and lead a small weekly discussion session for students currently enrolled in introductory biology classes. The instructor for this course, Dr. Kosinski-Collins, is a member of the HHMI Education Group.
7.391 | Concept-Centered Teaching		 (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-391-concept-centered-teaching-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Dr. Julia Khodor term:Fall 2005 features: description:Do you like teaching, but find yourself frustrated by how little students seem to learn? Would you like to try teaching, but are nervous about whether you will be any good at it? Are you interested in new research on science education? Research in science education shows that the greatest obstacle to student learning is the failure to identify and confront the misconceptions with which the students enter the class or those that they acquire during their studies. This weekly seminar course focuses on developing the participants' ability to uncover and confront student misconceptions and to foster student understanding and retention of key concepts. Participants read primary literature on science education, uncover basic concepts often overlooked when teaching biology, and lead a small weekly discussion session for students currently enrolled in introductory biology classes. The instructor for this course, Dr. Julia Khodor, is a member of the HHMI Education Group.
7.66J | Cognitive & Behavioral Genetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-19j-cognitive-behavioral-genetics-spring-2001 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi,  Steven Pinker term:Spring 2001 features: description:How genetics can add to our understanding of cognition, language, emotion, personality, and behavior. Use of gene mapping to estimate risk factors for psychological disorders and variation in behavioral and personality traits. Mendelian genetics, genetic mapping techniques, and statistical analysis of large populations and their application to particular studies in behavioral genetics. Topics also include environmental influence on genetic programs, evolutionary genetics, and the larger scientific, social, ethical, and philosophical implications.
7.81J | Systems Biology		 (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2014 | textbook:[UA] =  Alon, U. An Introduction to Systems Biology: Design Principles of Biological Circuits. Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2006. textbook:[MN] =  Nowak, M. A. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Belknap Press, 2006. textbook:[BA] =  Alberts, B., et al. Essential Cell Biology. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 2009. textbook:[SS] =  Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Westview Press, 2014. textbook:Edelstein-Keshet, L. Sections 6.2, 6.6, and 6.7 in Mathematical Models in Biology. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an introduction to cellular and population-level systems biology with an emphasis on synthetic biology, modeling of genetic networks, cell-cell interactions, and evolutionary dynamics. Cellular systems include genetic switches and oscillators, network motifs, genetic network evolution, and cellular decision-making. Population-level systems include models of pattern formation, cell-cell communication, and evolutionary systems biology.
7.A12 | Freshman Seminar: Structural Basis of Genetic Material: Nucleic Acids | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-a12-freshman-seminar-structural-basis-of-genetic-material-nucleic-acids-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Shuguang Zhang term:Fall 2005 features: description:Since the discovery of the structure of the DNA double helix in 1953 by Watson and Crick, the information on detailed molecular structures of DNA and RNA, namely, the foundation of genetic material, has expanded rapidly. This discovery is the beginning of the "Big Bang" of molecular biology and biotechnology. In this seminar, students discuss, from a historical perspective and current developments, the importance of pursuing the detailed structural basis of genetic materials.
7.51 | Graduate Biochemistry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-51-graduate-biochemistry-fall-2001 | textbook:Creighton, T. E. Proteins: Structure and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1992. textbook:Fersht, Alan. Enzyme Structure and Mechanism. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1985. textbook:Kyte, Jack. Mechanism in Protein Chemistry. New York, NY: Routledge, 1995. textbook:———. Structure in Protein Chemistry. New York, NY: Routledge, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Bob Sauer,  Frank Solomon,  Tania Baker term:Fall 2001 features:Selected lecture notes description:The tools and analytical methods that biochemists use to dissect biological problems. Analysis of the mode of action and structure of regulatory, binding, and catalytic proteins.
7.548J | Perspectives in Biological Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-400j-perspectives-in-biological-engineering-spring-2006 | textbook:Lodish, Harvey, Matthew P. Scott, Paul Matsudaira, James Darnell, Lawrence Zipursky, Chris A. Kaiser, Arnold Berk, and Monty Krieger. Molecular Cell Biology. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Douglas Lauffenburger,  Peter Dedon term:Spring 2006 features: description:This seminar-format course provides an in-depth presentation and discussion of how engineering and biological approaches can be combined to solve problems in science and technology, emphasizing integration of biological information and methodologies with engineering analysis, synthesis, and design. Emphasis is placed on molecular mechanisms underlying cellular processes, including signal transduction, gene expression networks, and functional responses.
7.59J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
7.60 | Cell Biology: Structure and Functions of the Nucleus | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-60-cell-biology-structure-and-functions-of-the-nucleus-spring-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Phillip Sharp,  Richard Young term:Spring 2010 features: description:The goal of this course is to teach both the fundamentals of nuclear cell biology as well as the methodological and experimental approaches upon which they are based. Lectures and class discussions will cover the background and fundamental findings in a particular area of nuclear cell biology. The assigned readings will provide concrete examples of the experimental approaches and logic used to establish these findings. Some examples of topics include genome and systems biology, transcription, and gene expression.
7.67J | Genetic Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-322j-genetic-neurobiology-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Troy Littleton,  William Quinn term:Fall 2005 features: description:This course deals with the specific functions of neurons, the interactions of neurons in development, and the organization of neuronal ensembles to produce behavior. Topics covered include the analysis of mutations, and molecular analysis of the genes required for nervous system function. In particular, this course focuses on research work done with nematodes, fruit flies, mice, and humans.
7.68J | Cell and Molecular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-013j-cell-and-molecular-neurobiology-spring-2008 | textbook:Levitan, Irwin B., and Leonard K. Kaczmarek. The Neuron: Cell & Molecular Biology. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Martha Constantine-Paton,  Morgan Sheng,  William Quinn term:Spring 2008 features: description:This course explores the major areas of cellular and molecular neurobiology, including excitable cells and membranes, ion channels and receptors, synaptic transmission, cell-type determination, axon guidance, neuronal cell biology, neurotrophin signaling and cell survival, synapse formation and neural plasticity. Material includes lectures and exams, and involves presentation and discussion of primary literature. It focuses on major concepts and recent advances in experimental neuroscience.
7.69J | Developmental Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-18-developmental-neurobiology-spring-2005 | textbook:Levi-Motalcini, R. "NGF: An Uncharted Route." In The Neurosciences: Paths of Discovery. Edited by Frederic Worden, Judith P. Swazey and George Adelman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1975. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi term:Spring 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course considers molecular control of neural specification, formation of neuronal connections, construction of neural systems, and the contributions of experience to shaping brain structure and function. Topics include: neural induction and pattern formation, cell lineage and fate determination, neuronal migration, axon guidance, synapse formation and stabilization, activity-dependent development and critical periods, development of behavior.
7.81J | Systems Biology		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:The following sections from  Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York: Garland Science, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Alexander van Oudenaarden term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course introduces the mathematical modeling techniques needed to address key questions in modern biology. An overview of modeling techniques in molecular biology and genetics, cell biology and developmental biology is covered. Key experiments that validate mathematical models are also discussed, as well as molecular, cellular, and developmental systems biology, bacterial chemotaxis, genetic oscillators, control theory and genetic networks, and gradient sensing systems. Additional specific topics include: constructing and modeling of genetic networks, lambda phage as a genetic switch, synthetic genetic switches, circadian rhythms, reaction diffusion equations, local activation and global inhibition models, center finding networks, general pattern formation models, modeling cell-cell communication, quorum sensing, and finally, models for Drosophila development.
7.89J | Topics in Computational and Systems Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-89j-topics-in-computational-and-systems-biology-fall-2010 | textbook:Benjamini, Eli, Richard Coico, and Geoffrey Sunshine. Chapters 1, 7, and 17 in Immunology: A Short Course. 5th ed. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  Jeff Gore,  Wendy Gilbert,  Bruce Tidor,  Forest White term:Fall 2010 features: description:This is a seminar based on research literature. Papers covered are selected to illustrate important problems and approaches in the field of computational and systems biology, and provide students a framework from which to evaluate new developments. The MIT Initiative in Computational and Systems Biology (CSBi) is a campus-wide research and education program that links biology, engineering, and computer science in a multidisciplinary approach to the systematic analysis and modeling of complex biological phenomena. This course is one of a series of core subjects offered through the CSB Ph.D. program, for students with an interest in interdisciplinary training and research in the area of computational and systems biology.
7.90J | Computational Functional Genomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-90j-computational-functional-genomics-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:David Gifford,  Tommi Jaakkola term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:The course focuses on casting contemporary problems in systems biology and functional genomics in computational terms and providing appropriate tools and methods to solve them. Topics include genome structure and function, transcriptional regulation, and stem cell biology in particular; measurement technologies such as microarrays (expression, protein-DNA interactions, chromatin structure); statistical data analysis, predictive and causal inference, and experiment design. The emphasis is on coupling problem structures (biological questions) with appropriate computational approaches.
7.92J | Neurology, Neuropsychology, and Neurobiology of Aging | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-110j-neurology-neuropsychology-and-neurobiology-of-aging-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin,  Vernon M. Ingram term:Spring 2005 features: description:Lectures and discussions in this course cover the clinical, behavioral, and molecular aspects of the brain aging processes in humans. Topics include the loss of memory and other cognitive abilities in normal aging, as well as neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Discussions based on readings taken from primary literature explore the current research in this field.
7.98J | Neural Plasticity in Learning and Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-301j-neural-plasticity-in-learning-and-development-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Earl Miller,  Guosong Liu,  Matt Wilson,  Susumu Tonegawa,  William Quinn term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Roles of neural plasticity in learning and memory and in development of invertebrates and mammals. An in-depth critical analysis of current literature of molecular, cellular, genetic, electrophysiological, and behavioral studies. Discussion of original papers supplemented by introductory lectures.
9.00SC | Introduction to Psychology		 (Fall 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-00sc-introduction-to-psychology-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:John Gabrieli term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Exams and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course is a survey of the scientific study of human nature, including how the mind works, and how the brain supports the mind. Topics include the mental and neural bases of perception, emotion, learning, memory, cognition, child development, personality, psychopathology, and social interaction. Students will consider how such knowledge relates to debates about nature and nurture, free will, consciousness, human differences, self, and society.
9.00 | Introduction to Psychology		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-00-introduction-to-psychology-fall-2004 | textbook:The textbook readings are in Gleitman, Henry, Alan J. Fridlund, and Daniel Reisberg. Psychology. 6th ed. New York, NY: Norton, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jeremy Wolfe term:Fall 2004 features:Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course surveys questions about human behavior and mental life ranging from how you see to why you fall in love. The great controversies: nature and nurture, free will, consciousness, human differences, self and society. Students are exposed to the range of theoretical perspectives including biological, evolutionary, cognitive, and psychoanalytic. One of the best aspects of Psychology is that you are the subject matter. This makes it possible to do many demonstrations in lecture that allow you to experience the topic under study. Lectures work in tandem with the textbook. The course breaks into small recitations sections to allow discussion, oral presentations, and individual contact with instructors.
9.01 | Introduction to Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-01-introduction-to-neuroscience-fall-2007 | textbook:Bear, Mark F., Barry W. Connors, and Michael A. Neuroscience: Exploring the Brain. 3rd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. level:Undergraduate instructors:Mark Bear,  Sebastian Seung term:Fall 2007 features: description:This course is an introduction to the mammalian nervous system, with emphasis on the structure and function of the human brain. Topics include the function of nerve cells, sensory systems, control of movement, learning and memory, and diseases of the brain.
9.01 | Neuroscience and Behavior | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-01-neuroscience-and-behavior-fall-2003 | textbook:Rosenzweig, Mark R., Arnold L. Leiman, and S. Marc Breedlove. Biological Psychology. 3rd ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, Inc., 2002. textbook:Gazzaniga, Michael S., Richard B. Ivry, and George R. Mangun. Cognitive Neuroscience. The Biology of the Mind. New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company, 1998. textbook:Nauta, Walle J. H., and Michael Feirtag. Fundamental Neuroanatomy. New York, NY: Freeman, 1986. textbook:Wolpert, Lewis. The Triumph of the Embryo. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1991. level:Undergraduate instructors:Gerald E. Schneider term:Fall 2003 features:Audio lectures description:This course covers the relation of structure and function at various levels of neuronal integration. Topics include functional neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, sensory and motor systems, centrally programmed behavior, sensory systems, sleep and dreaming, motivation and reward, emotional displays of various types, &quot;higher functions&quot; and the neocortex, and neural processes in learning and memory.
9.03 | Neural Basis of Learning and Memory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-03-neural-basis-of-learning-and-memory-fall-2007 | textbook:Gluck, Mark, Eduardo Mercado, and Catherine Myers. Learning and Memory: From Brain to Behavior. New York, NY: Worth Publishers, 2007. textbook:Huettel, Scott A., Allen W. Song, and Gregory McCarthy. Chapter 15 in Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Matt Wilson,  Suzanne Corkin term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course highlights the interplay between cellular and molecular storage mechanisms and the cognitive neuroscience of memory, with an emphasis on human and animal models of hippocampal mechanisms and function. Class sessions include lectures and discussion of papers.
9.05 | Neural Basis of Movement | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-05-neural-basis-of-movement-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Chris Moore,  Emilio Bizzi,  Mriganka Sur,  Peter H. Schiller,  Ann M. Graybiel term:Spring 2003 features: description:Surveys general principles and specific examples of motor control in biological systems. Emphasizes the neural mechanisms underlying different aspects of movement and movement planning. Covers sensory reception, reflex arcs, spinal cord organization, pattern generators, muscle function, locomotion, eye movement, and cognitive aspects of motor control. Functions of central motor structures including cerebellum, basal ganglia, and cerebral cortex considered. Cortical plasticity, motor learning and computational approaches to motor control, and motor disorders are discussed.
9.07 | Statistical Methods in Brain and Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-07-statistical-methods-in-brain-and-cognitive-science-spring-2004 | textbook:All readings are from:  Freedman, Pisani, and Purves. Statistics. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Norton, 1998. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ruth Rosenholtz term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course emphasizes statistics as a powerful tool for studying complex issues in behavioral and biological sciences, and explores the limitations of statistics as a method of inquiry. The course covers descriptive statistics, probability and random variables, inferential statistics, and basic issues in experimental design. Techniques introduced include confidence intervals, t-tests, F-tests, regression, and analysis of variance. Assignments include a project in data analysis. 
9.10 | Cognitive Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-10-cognitive-neuroscience-spring-2006 | textbook:Sacks, Oliver. The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat. New York, NY: Summit Books, 1985. Chapter 1. textbook:Nelson, Charles A., Kathleen M. Thomas, and Michelle de Haan. Neuroscience of Cognitive Development: The Role of Experience and the Developing Brain. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, 2006. Chapter 1. level:Undergraduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course explores the cognitive and neural processes that support attention, vision, language, motor control, navigation, and memory. It introduces basic neuroanatomy, functional imaging techniques, and behavioral measures of cognition, and discusses methods by which inferences about the brain bases of cognition are made. We consider evidence from patients with neurological diseases (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Balint's syndrome, amnesia, and focal lesions from stroke) and from normal human participants.
9.12 | Experimental Molecular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-12-experimental-molecular-neurobiology-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Carlos Lois,  Yasunori Hayashi term:Fall 2006 features: description:Designed for students without previous experience in techniques of cellular and molecular biology, this class teaches basic experimental techniques in cellular and molecular neurobiology. Experimental approaches covered include tissue culture of neuronal cell lines, dissection and culture of brain cells, DNA manipulation, synaptic protein analysis, immunocytochemistry, and fluorescent microscopy.
9.15 | Biochemistry and Pharmacology of Synaptic Transmission | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-15-biochemistry-and-pharmacology-of-synaptic-transmission-fall-2007 | textbook:Cooper, Jack R., Floyd E. Bloom, and Robert H. Roth. The Biochemical Basis of Neuropharmacology. 8th ed. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:*** Laterra, J., R. Keep, L. A. Betz, and G. W. Goldstein. "Blood-Brain Barrier." In Basic Neurochemistry: Molecular, Cellular, and Medical Aspects. Edited by George J. Siegel, Bernard W. Agranoff, R. Wayne Albers, Stephen K. Fisher, and Michael D. Uhler. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, c1999. textbook:*** Pardridge, W. M. "Regulation of Amino Acid Availability to the Brain." In Nutrition and the Brain. Vol. 1. Edited by R. J. Wurtman and J. J. Wurtman. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1977, pp. 142-175. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Richard Wurtman term:Fall 2007 features: description:This course considers the process of neurotransmission, especially chemicals used in the brain and elsewhere to carry signals from nerve terminals to the structures they innervate. We focus on monoamine transmitters (acetylcholine; serotonin; dopamine and norepinephrine); we also examine amino acid and peptide transmitters and neuromodulators like adenosine. Macromolecules that mediate neurotransmitter synthesis, release, inactivation and receptor-mediated actions are discussed, as well as factors that regulate their activity and the second-messenger systems and ion fluxes that they control. The involvement of particular neurotransmitters in human diseases is considered.
9.16 | Cellular Neurophysiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-16-cellular-neurophysiology-spring-2002 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Guosong Liu term:Spring 2002 features: description:This course includes:Surveying the molecular and cellular mechanisms of neuronal communication.Coversion channels in excitable membrane, synaptic transmission, and synaptic plasticity.Correlation of the properties of ion channels and synaptic transmission with their physiological function such as learning and memory.Discussion of the organizational principles for the formation of functional neural networks at synaptic and cellular levels.
9.18 | Developmental Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-18-developmental-neurobiology-spring-2005 | textbook:Levi-Motalcini, R. "NGF: An Uncharted Route." In The Neurosciences: Paths of Discovery. Edited by Frederic Worden, Judith P. Swazey and George Adelman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1975. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi term:Spring 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course considers molecular control of neural specification, formation of neuronal connections, construction of neural systems, and the contributions of experience to shaping brain structure and function. Topics include: neural induction and pattern formation, cell lineage and fate determination, neuronal migration, axon guidance, synapse formation and stabilization, activity-dependent development and critical periods, development of behavior.
9.19J | Cognitive & Behavioral Genetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-19j-cognitive-behavioral-genetics-spring-2001 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi,  Steven Pinker term:Spring 2001 features: description:How genetics can add to our understanding of cognition, language, emotion, personality, and behavior. Use of gene mapping to estimate risk factors for psychological disorders and variation in behavioral and personality traits. Mendelian genetics, genetic mapping techniques, and statistical analysis of large populations and their application to particular studies in behavioral genetics. Topics also include environmental influence on genetic programs, evolutionary genetics, and the larger scientific, social, ethical, and philosophical implications.
9.22J | A Clinical Approach to the Human Brain | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-22j-a-clinical-approach-to-the-human-brain-fall-2006 | textbook:Purves, Dale, et al. Neuroscience. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. textbook:Kandell, Eric, James Schwartz, and Thomas Jessell. Principles of Neural Science. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2000. textbook:Livingstone, Margaret. Vision and Art: The Biology of Seeing. New York, NY: Abrams, 2002. textbook:Matthews, Paul, and Jeffrey McQuain. The Bard on the Brain: Understanding the Mind through the Art of Shakespeare and the Science of Brain Imaging. New York, NY: Dana Press, 2003. textbook:Zeki, Semir. Inner Vision: An Exploration of Art and the Brain. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Sacks, Oliver. The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat: And Other Clinical Tales. New York, NY: Simon and Schuster, 1998. textbook:Zeman, Adam. Consciousness: A User's Guide. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2004. textbook:Damasio, Antonio. Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain. Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace, 2003. textbook:Curtiss, Susan. Genie: A Psycholinguistic Study of a Modern-day "Wild Child". New York, NY: Academic Press, 1977. textbook:Damasio, Antonio. Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain. Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace, 2003. textbook:Damasio, Antonio. Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain. Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Thomas Byrne term:Fall 2006 features: description:This course is designed to provide an understanding of how the human brain works in health and disease, and is intended for both the Brain and Cognitive Sciences major and the non-Brain and Cognitive Sciences major. Knowledge of how the human brain works is important for all citizens, and the lessons to be learned have enormous implications for public policy makers and educators. The course will cover the regional anatomy of the brain and provide an introduction to the cellular function of neurons, synapses and neurotransmitters. Commonly used drugs that alter brain function can be understood through a knowledge of neurotransmitters. Along similar lines, common diseases that illustrate normal brain function will be discussed. Experimental animal studies that reveal how the brain works will be reviewed.Throughout the seminar we will discuss clinical cases from Dr. Byrne's experience that illustrate brain function; in addition, articles from the scientific literature will be discussed in each class.
9.29J | Introduction to Computational Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-29j-introduction-to-computational-neuroscience-spring-2004 | textbook:Dayan, Peter, and L. F. Abbott.Theoretical Neuroscience: Computational and Mathematical Modeling of Neural Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sebastian Seung term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course gives a mathematical introduction to neural coding and dynamics. Topics include convolution, correlation, linear systems, game theory, signal detection theory, probability theory, information theory, and reinforcement learning. Applications to neural coding, focusing on the visual system are covered, as well as Hodgkin-Huxley and other related models of neural excitability, stochastic models of ion channels, cable theory, and models of synaptic transmission. Visit the Seung Lab Web site.
9.35 | Sensation And Perception | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-35-sensation-and-perception-spring-2009 | textbook:Wolfe, Jeremy M., et al. Sensation and Perception. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates Inc., 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Benjamin Balas term:Spring 2009 features: description:This course provides an introduction to important philosophical questions about the mind, specifically those that are intimately connected with contemporary psychology and neuroscience. Are our concepts innate, or are they acquired by experience? (And what does it even mean to call a concept 'innate'?) Are 'mental images' pictures in the head? Is color in the mind or in the world? Is the mind nothing more than the brain? Can there be a science of consciousness? The course will include guest lectures by Professors.
9.458 | Parkinson's Disease Workshop | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-458-parkinsons-disease-workshop-summer-2006 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin term:Summer 2006 features:Lecture notes description:Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, progressive, degenerative disease of the brain that produces movement disorders and deficits in executive functions, working memory, visuospatial functions, and internal control of attention. It is named after James Parkinson (1755-1824), the English neurologist who described the first case.This six-week summer workshop explored different aspects of PD, including clinical characteristics, structural neuroimaging, neuropathology, genetics, and cognitive function (mental status, cognitive control processes, working memory, and long-term declarative memory).&nbsp; The workshop did not take up the topics of motor control, nondeclarative memory, or treatment.&nbsp;
9.459 | Scene Understanding Symposium | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-459-scene-understanding-symposium-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Aude Oliva term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:What are the circuits, mechanisms and representations that permit the recognition of a visual scene from just one glance? In this one-day seminar on Scene Understanding, speakers from a variety of disciplines - neurophysiology, cognitive neuroscience, visual cognition, computational neuroscience and computer vision - will address a range of topics related to scene recognition, including natural image categorization, contextual effects on object recognition, and the role of attention in scene understanding and visual art. The goal is to encourage exchanges between researchers of all fields of brain sciences in the burgeoning field of scene understanding.
9.48J | Philosophical Issues in Brain Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-08j-philosophical-issues-in-brain-science-spring-2009 | textbook:———. "On the Nature of Language." In Origins and Evolution of Language and Speech. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. Edited by S. R. Harnad, H. D. Steklis, and J. Lancaster. New York Academy of Sciences, 1976, pp. 46–57. textbook:———. Reflections on Language. 1st ed. Surrey, Ashgate, 1976. textbook:Laurence, Stephen. "Is Linguistics a Branch of Psychology?" In Epistemology of Language. Edited by Alex Barber. Oxford University Press, 2003, pp. 69–106. textbook:Locke, John. An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. Edited by  Peter H. Nidditch. Oxford University Press, 1979. textbook:Keil, Frank C. "The Emergence of Theoretical Beliefs as Constraints on Concepts." In The Epigenesis of Mind: Essays on Biology and Cognition. Edited by S. Carey and R. Gelman. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1991. textbook:Laurence, Stephen, and Eric Margolis, eds. "Concepts and Cognitive Science." In Concepts: Core Readings. The MIT Press, 1999, pp. 3–81. textbook:Sharples, R. W. Plato: Meno. Aris & Phillips, 1985. textbook:Leibniz, G. W. New Essays on Human Understanding. 2nd ed. Edited by Peter Remnant and Jonathan Bennett. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Fodor, J. A. "The Present Status of the Innateness Controversy." In RePresentations. The MIT Press, 1981. textbook:Pinker, Steven. "Fifty Thousand Innate Concepts (And Other Radical Theories of Language and Thought)." In The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window into Human Nature. Viking, 2008. textbook:Cowie, Fiona. "The Logical Problem of Language Acquisition." In What's Within?: Nativism Reconsidered. Oxford University Press, 1998, pp. 205–37. textbook:Pinker, Stephen. "How Language Works." In The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language. Harper Perennial Modern Classics, 2000, pp. 74–118. textbook:Byrne, Alex. "Intentionality." In The Philosophy of Science: An Encyclopedia. Edited by S. Sarkar and J. Pfeifer. Routledge, 2005, pp. 53–82. textbook:Gallagher, Shaun. "Neurons and Neonates: Reflections on the Molyneux Problem." In How The Body Shapes The Mind. Oxford University Press, 2006. textbook:Searle, John R. "Perception." In Mind: A Brief Introduction (Fundamentals of Philosophy). Oxford University Press, 2005, pp. 259–78. textbook:Valberg, J. J. The Puzzle of Experience. Oxford University Press, 1992, pp. 19–47. textbook:Byrne, Alex. "Behaviorism." In A Companion to the Philosophy of Mind. Edited by S. Guttenplan. Blackwell Publishers, 1996, pp. 132–40. textbook:Chalmers, David J. "How can we Construct a Science of Consciousness?" In Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Michael S. Gazzaniga. The MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Nagel, Thomas. "What is it Like to be a Bat?" In Mortal Questions. Cambridge University Press, 1991. textbook:Descartes, Rene. "Meditations on First Philosophy." In Meditations on First Philosophy. Edited by John Cottingham and Bernard Williams. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:———. "The Passions of the Soul." In Meditations on First Philosophy. Edited by John Cottingham and Bernard Williams. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Chalmers, David J. "Consciousness and Its Place in Nature." In The Blackwell Guide to the Philosophy of Mind. Edited by Stephen P. Stich and Ted A. Warfield. Wiley-Blackwell, 2003. textbook:———. "What is a Neural Correlate of Consciousness?" In Neural Correlates of Consciousness: Empirical and Conceptual Questions. Edited by Thomas Metzinger. The MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Lewis, David. "What Experience Teaches." In Mind and Cognition: An Anthology. Edited by W. G. Lycan. Hoboken, Wiley-Blackwell, 1999. level:Undergraduate instructors:Alex Byrne,  Pawan Sinha term:Spring 2009 features:Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to important philosophical questions about the mind, specifically those that are intimately connected with contemporary psychology and neuroscience. Are our concepts innate or are they acquired by experience? And what does it even mean to call a concept 'innate'? Are 'mental images' pictures in the head? Is color in the mind or in the world? Is the mind nothing more than the brain? Can there be a science of consciousness? The course includes guest lectures by philosophers and cognitive scientists.
9.51 | Affective Priming at Short and Extremely Short Exposures | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-51-affective-priming-at-short-and-extremely-short-exposures-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin term:Spring 2003 features: description:This course is an investigation of affective priming and creation of rigorously counterbalanced, fully computerized testing paradigm. Includes background readings, study design, counterbalancing, study execution, data analysis, presentation of poster, and final paper.
9.52-A | Investigating the Neural Substrates of Remote Memory using fMRI | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-52-a-investigating-the-neural-substrates-of-remote-memory-using-fmri-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin term:Spring 2003 features: description:This course is an investigation to distinguish episodic memory, which is memory of personal events, from semantic memory, which is general knowledge independent of time and place.
9.52-B | Topics in Brain and Cognitive Sciences Human Ethology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-52-b-topics-in-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-human-ethology-spring-2001 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Gerald E. Schneider term:Spring 2001 features: description:Survey and special topics designed for students in Brain and Cognitive Sciences. Emphasizes ethological studies of natural behavior patterns and their analysis in laboratory work, with contributions from field biology (mammology, primatology), sociobiology, and comparative psychology. Stresses human behavior but also includes major contributions from studies of other animals.
9.52-C | Computational Cognitive Science		 (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-52-c-computational-cognitive-science-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Joshua Tenenbaum term:Spring 2003 features: description:An introduction to computational theories of human cognition.&nbsp;Emphasizes questions of inductive learning and inference, and the representation of knowledge. Project required for graduate credit. This class is suitable for intermediate to advanced undergraduates or graduate students specializing in cognitive science, artificial intelligence, and related fields.
9.56J | Abnormal Language | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-56j-abnormal-language-fall-2004 | textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 4, "The Emergence of Syntax." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, pp. 101-150. textbook:Wexler, Kenneth. "Optional Infinitives, Head Movement and the Economy of Derivations." Chapter 14 in Verb Movement. Edited by David Lightfoot, and Norbert Hornstein. Cambridge; New York, NY, USA: Cambridge University Press, 1994, pp. 305-350. textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 8, "Acquisition of Binding Principles." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, Part 1. textbook:———. Chapter 8, "Acquisition of Binding Principles." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, Part 2. textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 7, "Acquisition of A-Movement." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002. textbook:Borer, Hagit, and Kenneth Wexler. "The Maturation of Syntax." In Parameter Setting. Edited by Thomas Roeper, and Edwin Williams. Dordrecht, Boston: D. Reidel Pub. Co., and Norwell; MA: Sold and distributed in the U.S.A. and Canada by Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1987. pp. 123-172. textbook:Fowler, A. E., Gelman, R., and Gleitman, L. R. "The course of language learning in children with Down Syndrome." In Tager-Flusberg, Helen, ed. Constraints on language acquisition: studies of atypical populations. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 91-140. textbook:Bellugi, U., S. Marks, A. Bihrle, and H. Sabo. "Dissociation Between Language and Cognitive Functions in Williams Syndrome." In Spatial Cognition: Brain Bases and Development. Edited by Joan Stiles-Davis, Mark Kritchevsky, and Ursula Bellugi. Hillsdale, NJ: L. Erlbaum Associates, 1988, pp. 177-189. Spatial Cognition Workshop (1984: Salk Institute for Biological Studies). level:Undergraduate instructors:Mr. Christopher Hirsch,  Ken Wexler term:Fall 2004 features: description:Introduction to the linguistic study of language pathology, concentrating on experimental approaches and theoretical explanations. Discussion of Specific Language Impairment, autism, Down syndrome, Williams syndrome, normal aging, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, hemispherectomy and aphasia. Focuses on the comparison of linguistic abilities among these syndromes, while drawing clear comparisons with first and second language acquisition. Topics include the lexicon, morphology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics. Relates the lost linguistic abilities in these syndromes to properties of the brain.
9.57J | Language Acquisition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-57j-language-acquisition-fall-2001 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Ken Wexler term:Fall 2001 features: description:Covers the major results in the study of first language acquisition concentrating on the development of linguistic structure, including sentence structure and morphology. Universal aspects of development are discussed, as well as a variety of cross-linguistic phenomena. Theories of language learning are considered, including parameter-setting and maturation.
9.59J | Psycholinguistics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-59j-psycholinguistics-spring-2005 | textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 4. textbook:Lasnik, H. "The forms of sentences." In An Invitation to Cognitive Science: Language. Vol. 1. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 283-310. textbook:Wolf, F., and E. Gibson. "Parsing: Overview." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Gibson, E. "Linguistic complexity in sentence comprehension." In  Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002, pp. 1137-1141. textbook:Trueswell, J. C., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Toward a lexicalist framework of constraint based syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 155-180. textbook:Gibson, E. "The dependency locality theory: A distance-based theory of linguistic complexity." In Image, Language, Brain. Edited by Y. Miyashita, A. Marantz, and W. O'Neil. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, pp. 95-126. textbook:Spivey-Knowlton, M., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Referential context and syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 415-439. textbook:Jurafsky, D., and J. H. Martin. Speech and Language Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000, chapter 18. textbook:Osterhout, L. "Event-related brain potentials as tools." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 15-44. textbook:Ferreira, F. "Prosody." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 7. textbook:Whitney, P. The Psychology of Language. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Gleitman, L. R., and E. L. Newport. "The invention of language by children: Environmental and biological influences on the acquisition of language." In Language. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 1-24. textbook:Pinker, S. "Language acquisition." In Language. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 135-183. textbook:Fromkin, V. A., and N. B. Ratner. "Speech production." In Psycholinguistics. Edited by J. Berko Gleason, and N. B. Ratner. Fort Worth, Texas: Harcourt Brace, 1993. textbook:Whitney, P. The Psychology of Language. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 1998, chapter 4. level:Undergraduate instructors:Edward Gibson term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course covers central topics in language processing, including: the structure of language; sentence, discourse, and morphological processing; storage and access of words in the mental dictionary; speech processing; the relationship between the computational resources available in working memory and the language processing mechanism; and ambiguity resolution. The course also considers computational modeling, including connectionist models; the relationship between language and thought; and issues in language acquisition including critical period phenomena, the acquisition of speech, and the acquisition of words. Experimental methodologies such as self-paced reading, eye-tracking, cross-modal priming, and neural imaging methods are also examined.
9.63 | Laboratory in Visual Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-63-laboratory-in-visual-cognition-fall-2009 | textbook:McBurney, Donald H., and Theresa L. White. Research Methods. 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Thomson/Wadsworth, 2004, chapters 5 and 8. textbook:Palmer, Stephen E. Vision Science: Photons to Phenomenology. 1st ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, pp. 668-672. textbook:McBurney, Donald H., and Theresa L. White. Research Methods. 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Thomson/Wadsworth, 2004, chapters 5, 7, 8, and 11. textbook:Wolfe, Jeremy M. "Guidance of Visual Search by Preattentive Information." In Neurobiology of Attention. Edited by Itti, L, Rees, G. and John K. Tsotsos, Maryland Heights, MO: Academic Press, 2005. textbook:Bruce, Vicki. In the Eye of the Beholder: The Science of Face Perception. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. level:Undergraduate instructors:Aude Oliva term:Fall 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:9.63 teaches principles of experimental methods in human perception and cognition, including design and statistical analysis. The course combines lectures and hands-on experimental exercises and requires an independent experimental project. Some experience in programming is desirable. To foster improved writing and presentation skills in conducting and critiquing research in cognitive science, students are required to provide reports and give oral presentations of three team experiments. A fourth individually conducted experiment includes a proposal with revision, and concluding written and oral reports.
9.63 | Laboratory in Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-63-laboratory-in-cognitive-science-fall-2002 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Pawan Sinha term:Fall 2002 features: description:Teaches principles of experimental methods in human perception and cognition, including design and statistical analysis. Combines lectures and hands-on experimental exercises; requires an independent experimental project. Some experience in programming desirable. To foster improved writing and presentation skills in conducting and critiquing research in cognitive science, students are required to provide reports and give oral presentations of three team experiments; a fourth individually conducted experiment includes a proposal with revision, and concluding written and oral reports.
9.65 | Cognitive Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-65-cognitive-processes-spring-2004 | textbook:Reisberg, Daniel. Cognition: Exploring the Science of The Mind. 2nd ed. New York: Norton, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Mary C. Potter term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This undergraduate course is designed to introduce students to cognitive processes. The broad range of topics covers each of the areas in the field of cognition, and presents the current thinking in this discipline. As an introduction to human information processing and learning, the topics include the nature of mental representation and processing, the architecture of memory, pattern recognition, attention, imagery and mental codes, concepts and prototypes, reasoning and problem solving.
9.66J | Computational Cognitive Science		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-66j-computational-cognitive-science-fall-2004 | textbook:AIMA is short for the recommended course text:  Russell, Stuart, J., and Peter Norvig. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall/Pearson Education, 2003. textbook:Goodman, Nelson. "The New Riddle of Induction." In Fact, Fiction, and Forecast. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1983. textbook:Fodor, Chomsky. "On the Impossibility of Acquiring more Powerful Structures," and "The Inductivist Fallacy (including discussion)." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984, pp. 142-149. textbook:———. "The Inductivist Fallacy." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984, pp. 259-269, including discussion. textbook:Bruner, Jerome S., Jacqueline J. Goodnow, and George Austin. A Study in Thinking. Somerset, NJ: Transaction Publishers, 1986. textbook:Mitchell, Thomas M. Machine Learning. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997, chapter 2. textbook:Kearns, Michael J., and Umesh V. Vasirani. An Introduction to Computational Learning Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1994, pp. 1-7. textbook:Winston, P. H., ed. "Learning Structural Descriptions from Examples." In The Psychology of Computer Vision. New York, NY: McGaw-Hill, 1975, pp. 157-209. textbook:Chomsky, Noam. Syntactic Structures. Berlin, Germany: Walter De Gruyter, Inc., 1976, pp. 11-48. textbook:Markman, Arthur. Knowledge Representation. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1998, pp. 118-146, and 188-216. textbook:1.  Pinker, S. "Why the Child Holded the Baby Rabbits: A Case Study in Language Acquisition." In An Invitation to Cognitive Science: Language. Edited by L. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. 2nd ed. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:2.  Rumelhart, D. E., and J. L. McClelland, eds. "On Learning the Past Tenses of English Verbs." Chapter 18 in Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Rumelhart, D. E., and J. L. McClelland, eds. "Schemata and Sequential Thought Processes in PDP Models." Chapter 14 in Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Sivia. Bayesian Data Analysis. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996, pp. 1-23. textbook:McClelland, J. L., D. E. Rumelhart, andG. Hinton. "The Appeal of Parallel Distributed Processing." In Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Edited by D. E. Rumelhart, and J. L. McClelland. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Gelman, Carlin, Stern, and Rubin. "Hierarchical Models." Chapter 5 in Bayesian Data Analysis. 2nd ed. London, UK: Chapman & Hall, 1995, pp. 117-131. textbook:Review:  Goodman, Nelson. "The New Riddle of Induction." In Fact, Fiction, and Forecast. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1983. textbook:Mitchell, Thomas M. "Bayesian Learning." Chapter 6 in Machine Learning. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997, sections 6.1-6.3. textbook:Tenenbaum, J. B. "Rules and Similarity in Concept Learning." In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 12. Edited by S. Solla, T. Leen, and K. Muller. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, 59-65. textbook:If necessary for background:  Bishop, C. M. "Bayesian Classification." Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Gelman, Susan A. The Essential Child. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, March 1, 2003, chapter 1, and 3, pp. 3-18, and 60-88. textbook:Pearl, Judea. Causality: Models, Reasoning, and Inference. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 2000, chapter 1. textbook:Gregory F. Cooper. "An Overview of the Representation and Discovery of Causal Relationships using Bayesian Networks." In Computation, Causation, and Discovery. Edited by Clark Glymour and Gregory F. Cooper. MIT Press, June 1999, pp. 3-62. textbook:Atran, Scott. "Classifying Nature Across Cultures." In Thinking: An Invitation to Cognitive Science. Edited by Edward E. Smith, Daniel N. Osherson, et. al. 2nd ed. Vol. 3. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 131-174. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Joshua Tenenbaum term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course is an introduction to computational theories of human cognition. Drawing on formal models from classic and contemporary artificial intelligence, students will explore fundamental issues in human knowledge representation, inductive learning and reasoning. What are the forms that our knowledge of the world takes? What are the inductive principles that allow us to acquire new knowledge from the interaction of prior knowledge with observed data? What kinds of data must be available to human learners, and what kinds of innate knowledge (if any) must they have?
9.67 | Object and Face Recognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-67-object-and-face-recognition-spring-2001 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Pawan Sinha term:Spring 2001 features: description:Provides a comprehensive introduction to key issues and findings in object recognition in experimental, neural, computational, and applied domains. Emphasizes the problem of representation, exploring the issue of how 3-D objects should be encoded so as to efficiently recognize them from 2-D images. Second half focuses on face recognition, an ecologically important instance of the general object recognition problem. Describes experimental studies of human face recognition performance and recent attempts to mimic this ability in artificial computational systems.
9.69 | Foundations of Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-69-foundations-of-cognition-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Josh Tenenbaum,  Lera Boroditsky term:Spring 2003 features: description:Advances in cognitive science have resolved, clarified, and sometimes complicated some of the great questions of Western philosophy: what is the structure of the world and how do we come to know it; does everyone represent the world the same way; what is the best way for us to act in the world. Specific topics include color, objects, number, categories, similarity, inductive inference, space, time, causality, reasoning, decision-making, morality and consciousness. Readings and discussion include a brief philosophical history of each topic and focus on advances in cognitive and developmental psychology, computation, neuroscience, and related fields. At least one subject in cognitive science, psychology, philosophy, linguistics, or artificial intelligence is required. An additional project is required for graduate credit.
9.71 | Functional MRI of High-Level Vision | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-71-functional-mri-of-high-level-vision-fall-2007 | textbook:Huettel, Scott A., Allen W. Song, and Gregory McCarthy. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. textbook:Farah, Martha J. Visual Agnosia. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004. textbook:———. The Cognitive Neuroscience of Vision. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, 2000. textbook:Kanwisher, N. "The Ventral Visual Object Pathway in Humans: Evidence from fMRI." In The Visual Neurosciences. Edited by Leo M. Chalupa and John S. Werner. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. textbook:Culham, J. C. "Functional Neuroimaging: Experimental Design and Analysis." In Handbook of Functional Neuroimaging of Cognition Book. Edited by R. Cabeza and A. Kingstone. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 2001, pp. 53-82. textbook:Ullman, S. "Approaches to Visual Recognition." In Functional Neuroimaging of Visual Cognition. Edited by Nancy Kanwisher and John Duncan. Oxford; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Tanaka, J. W., E. McKone, P. Martini, and K. Nakayama. "Isolating Holistic Processing in Faces (And Perhaps Objects)." Chapter 4 in Perception of Faces, Objects, and Scenes: Analytic and Holistic Processes. Edited by Mary A. Peterson and Gillian Rhodes. Oxford; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:Spellman, B. A., J. DeLoache, and R. A. Bjork. "Making Claims in Papers and Talks." In Critical Thinking in Psychology. Edited by R. J. Sternberg, H. L. Roediger III, and D. F. Halpern. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:Freiwald, W. A., and N. Kanwisher. "Visual Selective Attention: insights from Brain Imaging and Neurophysiology." In The Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Michael S. Gazzaniga. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Nancy Kanwisher term:Fall 2007 features: description:We are now at an unprecedented point in the field of neuroscience: We can watch the human brain in action as it sees, thinks, decides, reads, and remembers. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is the only method that enables us to monitor local neural activity in the normal human brain in a noninvasive fashion and with good spatial resolution. A large number of far-reaching and fundamental questions about the human mind and brain can now be answered using straightforward applications of this technology. This is particularly true in the area of high-level vision, the study of how we interpret and use visual information including object recognition, mental imagery, visual attention, perceptual awareness, visually guided action, and visual memory.The goals of this course are to help students become savvy and critical readers of the current neuroimaging literature, to understand the strengths and weaknesses of the technique, and to design their own cutting-edge, theoretically motivated studies. Students will read, present to the class, and critique recently published neuroimaging articles, as well as write detailed proposals for experiments of their own. Lectures will cover the theoretical background on some of the major areas in high-level vision, as well as an overview of what fMRI has taught us and can in future teach us about each of these topics. Lectures and discussions will also cover fMRI methods and experimental design. A prior course in statistics and at least one course in perception or cognition are required.
9.75J | Psychology of Gender | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-75j-psychology-of-gender-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Phoebe Kazdin Schnitzer term:Spring 2003 features: description:We will examine current research and theory regarding the validity and utility of commonly accepted gender differences in many realms. Topics include: gender differences in cognitive abilities; the social construction of gender; developmental, family, educational and medical influences; and political and economic forces.
9.93 | Marathon Moral Reasoning Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-93-marathon-moral-reasoning-laboratory-january-iap-2007 | textbook:Hauser, Marc. Moral Minds: How Nature Designed Our Universal Sense of Right and Wrong. New York, NY: Harper Collins, 2006. textbook:De Waal, Frans. Primates and Philosophers: How Morality Evolved. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2006. textbook:Wilson, James Q. The Moral Sense. New York, NY: Free Press, 1997. textbook:Feigenson, Neal. Legal Blame: How Jurors Think and Talk about Accidents. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association, 2001. textbook:Fischer, John M., and Mark Ravizza. Ethics: Problems and Principles. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 1992. textbook:Wright, Robert. The Moral Animal: Why We Are the Way We Are. New York, NY: Random House, 1995. level:Undergraduate instructors:John Mikhail,  Joshua Tenenbaum,  Rebecca Saxe term:January IAP 2007 features: description:This seminar focuses on the cognitive science of moral reasoning. Philosophers debate how we decide which moral actions are permissible. Is it permissible to take one human life in order to save others? We have powerful and surprisingly rich and subtle intuitions to such questions.In this class, you will learn how intuitions can be studied using formal analytical paradigms and behavioral experiments. Thursday evening, meet to learn about recent advances in theories of moral reasoning. Overnight, formulate a hypothesis about the structure of moral reasoning and design a questionnaire-based experiment to test this. Friday, present and select 1-2 proposals and collect data; we will then reconvene to analyze and discuss results and implications for the structure of the moral mind.This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
9.93 | Cognitive Neuroscience of Remembering: Creating and Controlling Memory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-93-cognitive-neuroscience-of-remembering-creating-and-controlling-memory-january-iap-2002 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Anthony Wagner term:January IAP 2002 features: description:This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.This survey course is intended to review memory and its impact on our lives. Memories make us who we are, and make us what we are going to become. The loss of memory in amnesia can cause us to lose ourselves.Memory provides a bridge between past and present. Through memory, past sensations, feelings, and ideas that have dropped from conscious awareness can be subsequently recovered to guide current thought and action. In this manner, memory allows us to locate our car in the parking lot at the end of the day or guides us to avoid retelling the same joke to the same friend. This seminar will focus on how memories are created and controlled such that we are able to remember the past. Recent insights from non-human electrophysiological and human brain imaging research will be emphasized.
9.97 | Introduction to Neuroanatomy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-97-introduction-to-neuroanatomy-january-iap-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Chris Moore term:January IAP 2003 features: description:This subject will be an intensive introduction to neuroanatomy, involving lectures, demonstrations, and hands-on laboratories, including a brain dissection. The course will not assume any prior knowledge of neuroanatomy, though some general knowledge of brain structures will be helpful.
9.98 | Neuropharmacology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-98-neuropharmacology-january-iap-2009 | textbook:Meyer, Jerrold S., and Linda F. Quenzer. Psychopharmacology: Drugs, the Brain and Behavior. 1st ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. textbook:Nestler, Eric, Steven Hyman, and Robert Malenka. Molecular Neuropharmacology: A Foundation for Clinical Neuroscience. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Professional, 2008. textbook:Cooper, Jack R., Floyd E. Bloom, and Robert H. Roth. The Biochemical Basis of Neuropharmacology. 8th ed. Oxford, USA: Oxford University Press, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Daniela Tropea term:January IAP 2009 features:Lecture notes description:The neuropharmacology course will discuss the drug-induced changes in functioning of the nervous system. The specific focus of this course will be to provide a description of the cellular and molecular actions of drugs on synaptic transmission. This course will also refer to specific diseases of the nervous system and their treatment in addition to giving an overview of the techniques used for the study of neuropharmacology.This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
9.98 | Language and Mind | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-98-language-and-mind-january-iap-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Ted Gibson term:January IAP 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course will address some fundamental questions regarding human language: (1) how language is represented in our minds; (2) how language is acquired by children; (3) how language is processed by adults; (4) the relationship between language and thought; (5) exploring how language is represented and processed using brain imaging methods; and (6) computational modeling of human language acquisition and processing.
9.011 | The Brain and Cognitive Sciences I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-011-the-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-i-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Earl Miller,  M. Christian Brown<br/>(Guest Lecturer),  Matt Wilson,  Peter H. Schiller<br/>(Guest Lecturer),  Ann M. Graybiel<br/>(Guest Lecturer) term:Fall 2002 features: description:Survey of principles underlying the structure and function of the nervous system, integrating molecular, cellular, and systems approaches. Topics: development of the nervous system and its connections, cell biology or neurons, neurotransmitters and synaptic transmission, sensory systems of the brain, the neuro-endocrine system, the motor system, higher cortical functions, behavioral and cellular analyses of learning and memory. First half of an intensive two-term survey of brain and behavioral studies for first-year graduate students.
9.012 | The Brain and Cognitive Sciences II		 (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-012-the-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-ii-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Edward Gibson,  Joshua Tenenbaum,  Pawan Sinha term:Spring 2006 features: description:This class is the second half of an intensive survey of cognitive science for first-year graduate students. Topics include visual perception, language, memory, cognitive architecture, learning, reasoning, decision-making, and cognitive development. Topics covered are from behavioral, computational, and neural perspectives.
9.012 | The Brain and Cognitive Sciences II		 (Spring 2002) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-012-the-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-ii-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Earl Miller,  Nancy Kanwisher term:Spring 2002 features: description:This course is the second half of the intensive survey of brain and behavioral studies for first-year graduate students in the Brain and Cognitive Sciences curriculum. Each module of this core course involves a series of overview lectures by leading researchers in the field. By offering a thorough introduction to the current state of the discipline while emphasizing critical thinking, the course aims to prepare students as cognitive scientists.Topics include: perception, attention, working memory, recognition and recall, language, and other issues in cognitive science. Topics are covered from the neural, behavioral and computational perspectives.
9.013J | Cell and Molecular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-013j-cell-and-molecular-neurobiology-spring-2008 | textbook:Levitan, Irwin B., and Leonard K. Kaczmarek. The Neuron: Cell & Molecular Biology. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Martha Constantine-Paton,  Morgan Sheng,  William Quinn term:Spring 2008 features: description:This course explores the major areas of cellular and molecular neurobiology, including excitable cells and membranes, ion channels and receptors, synaptic transmission, cell-type determination, axon guidance, neuronal cell biology, neurotrophin signaling and cell survival, synapse formation and neural plasticity. Material includes lectures and exams, and involves presentation and discussion of primary literature. It focuses on major concepts and recent advances in experimental neuroscience.
9.036 | The Visual System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-036-the-visual-system-spring-2005 | textbook:Kaas, J. H., and D. C. Lyon. "Visual cortex organization in primates: Theories of V3 and adjoining visual areas." Chapter 18 in Vision: from Neurons to Cognition. Edited by C. Casanova and M. Ptito. Progress in Brain Research. Vol. 134. Amsterdam, NL: Elsevier, 2001. textbook:Recommended Reading Gross, C. G. "From Imhotep to Hubel and Wiesel: The story of visual cortex." In Cerebral Cortex. Edited by Rockland, Kaas, and Peters. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1997. textbook:Kaas, J. H. "Theories of visual cortex organization in primates." In Cerebral Cortex. Edited by Rockland, Kaas and Peters. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1997. textbook:Spillman, L., and J. S. Werner. Chapter 5 in Visual Perception. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1990. textbook:Kaiser, P. K., and R. M. Boynton. "Sensitivity regulation." Chapter 6 in Human Color Vision. Washington, DC: Optical Society of America, 1996. textbook:Kaiser, P. H., and R. M. Boynton. "The encoding of color." Chapter 7 in Human Color Vision. Washington, DC: Optical Society of America, 1996. textbook:Sekuler, R., and R. Blake. "Color perception." Chapter 6 in Perception. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1994. textbook:Assigned Reading Schiller, P. H. "The neural control of visually guided eye movements." In Cognitive Neuroscience of Attention: A developmental perspective. Edited by J. Richards. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum, 1998. textbook:Schiller, P. H., and E. J. Tehovnik. "Look and See: How the brain moves your eyes about." Chapter 9 in Vision: from Neurons to Cognition. Edited by C. Casanova and M. Ptito. Progress in Brain Research. Vol. 134. Amsterdam, NL: Elsevier, 2001. textbook:Assigned Reading Howard, I. P., and B. J. Rogers. (a) Tests of Stereopsis (pp. 149-155), (b) Motion Parallax (pp. 571-584), and (c) Stereo in Animals: Chapter 16 (pp. 645-657). In Binocular vision and stereopsis. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Parker, A. J., and B. G. Cumming. "Cortical mechanisms of binocular stereoscopic vision." Chapter 14 in Vision: from Neurons to Cognition. Edited by C. Casanova and M. Ptito. Progress in Brain Research. Vol. 134. Amsterdam, NL: Elsevier, 2001. textbook:"Chapter 7." in Perception. Edited by R. Sekuler, and R. Blake. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1994. textbook:"Chapter 12." in Visual Perception Edited by L. Spillman, and J. S.Werner. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1990. textbook:———. "Past and present ideas about how the visual scene is analyzed by the brain." In Cerebral Cortex. Edited by Rockland, Kaas and Peters. Vol. 12. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1997. textbook:Schwartz, E. L. "Computational studies of the spatial architecture of primate visual cortex: Columns, maps, and protomaps." In Cerebral Cortex. Edited by A. Peters, and K. S. Rockland. Vol. 10. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1994. textbook:"Chapter 5" in Perception. Edited by R. Sekuler, and R. Blake. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1994. textbook:Adelson, E. H. "Lightness Perception and Lightness Illusions." Chapter 24 in The New Cognitive Neurosciences. Edited by M. Gazzaniga. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. p. 339-351. level:Graduate instructors:Peter H. Schiller term:Spring 2005 features: description:This comprehensive course on the visual system is designed to ground future researchers in the field of visual science and to provide scientists with an excellent basis for using the visual system as a model in research. In this graduate seminar, anatomical, neurophysiological, imaging and behavioral research is examined in an attempt to gain a better understanding of how information is processed in the primate visual system.
9.044J | Brain Mechanisms for Hearing and Speech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-722j-brain-mechanisms-for-hearing-and-speech-fall-2005 | textbook:Young, E. D., and K. A. Davis. "Circuitry and function of the dorsal cochlear nucleus." In Integrative Functions of the Mammalian Auditory Pathway. Edited by D. Oertel, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer, 2002. textbook:Guinan, J. J., Jr. "The physiology of olivocochlear efferents." In The Cochlea. Edited by P. Dallos, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1996, pp. 435-502. textbook:Spangler, K. M., and W. B. Warr. "The descending auditory system." In Neurobiology of Hearing: The Central Auditory System. Edited by R. A. Altschuler, R. P. Bobbin, B. M. Clopton, and D. W. Hoffman. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1991, pp. 27-45. textbook:Background   Delgutte, B. "Physiological models for basic auditory percepts." In Auditory Computation. Edited by H. H. Hawkins, T. A. McMullen, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer, 1995, pp. 157-220. textbook:Ingvar, M., and K. M. Petersson. "Functional maps and brain networks." In Brain Mapping: The Systems. Edited by A. W. Toga, and J. C. Mazziotta. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2000, pp. 111-139. textbook:Donchin, E., W. Ritter, and W. C. McCallum. "Cognitive psychophysiology: The endogenous components of the ERP." In Event-Related Potentials in Man. Edited by E. Callaway, P. Tueting, S. H. Koslow. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1979, pp. 349-411. textbook:Barlow, S. M., G. R. Farley, and R. D. Andreatta. "Neural Systems in Speech Physiology." Chapter 2 in Handbook of Clinical Speech Physiology. San Diego, CA: Singular Publishing Group, 1999, pp. 101-165. textbook:Amaral, D. G. "The functional organization of perception and movement." Chapter 19 in Principles of Neural Science. Edited by E. R. Kandel, J. H. Schwartz, and T. M. Jessell. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2000, pp. 337-348. textbook:Caplan, D., J. L. Gould. "Language and communication." In Fundamental Neuroscience. Edited by L. R. Squire, F. E. Bloom, S. K. McConnell, J. L. Roberts, N. C. Spitzer, and M. J. Zigmond. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Academic, 2002, pp. 1333-1352. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bertrand Delgutte,  David N. Caplan,  Frank H. Guenther,  Jennifer R. Melcher,  Joe C. Adams, Dr. Joseph S. Perkell, Dr. Kenneth E. Hancock,  M. Christian Brown term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:An advanced course covering anatomical, physiological, behavioral, and computational studies of the central nervous system relevant to speech and hearing. Students learn primarily by discussions of scientific papers on topics of current interest. Recent topics include cell types and neural circuits in the auditory brainstem, organization and processing in the auditory cortex, auditory reflexes and descending systems, functional imaging of the human auditory system, quantitative methods for relating neural responses to behavior, speech motor control, cortical representation of language, and auditory learning in songbirds.
9.081 | Human Memory and Learning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-081-human-memory-and-learning-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Anthony Wagner term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:Surveys the literature on the cognitive and neural organization of human memory and learning. Includes consideration of working memory and executive control, episodic and semantic memory, and implicit forms of memory. Emphasizes integration of cognitive theory with recent insights from functional neuroimaging (e.g., fMRI and PET).
9.110J | Neurology, Neuropsychology, and Neurobiology of Aging | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-110j-neurology-neuropsychology-and-neurobiology-of-aging-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin,  Vernon M. Ingram term:Spring 2005 features: description:Lectures and discussions in this course cover the clinical, behavioral, and molecular aspects of the brain aging processes in humans. Topics include the loss of memory and other cognitive abilities in normal aging, as well as neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Discussions based on readings taken from primary literature explore the current research in this field.
9.173J | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-56j-noninvasive-imaging-in-biology-and-medicine-fall-2005 | textbook:Bushberg, Jerrold T., J. Anthony Seibert, Edwin M. Leidholdt, Jr., and John M. Boone. The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. textbook:Cho, Z. H., Joie P. Jones, and Manbir Singh. Foundations of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1993. textbook:Phelps, Michael E. PET: Molecular Imaging and Its Biological Applications. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff term:Fall 2005 features: description:22.56J aims to give graduate students and advanced undergraduates background in the theory and application of noninvasive imaging methods to biology and medicine, with emphasis on neuroimaging. The course focuses on the modalities most frequently used in scientific research (X-ray CT, PET/SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging), and includes discussion of molecular imaging approaches used in conjunction with these scanning methods. Lectures by the professor will be supplemented by in-class discussions of problems in research, and hands-on demonstrations of imaging systems.
9.201 | Advanced Animal Behavior | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-201-advanced-animal-behavior-spring-2000 | level:Graduate instructors:Gerald E. Schneider term:Spring 2000 features: description:The course includes survey and special topics designed for graduate students in the brain and cognitive sciences. It emphasizes ethological studies of natural behavior patterns and their analysis in laboratory work, with contributions from field biology (mammology, primatology), sociobiology, and comparative psychology. It stresses mammalian behavior but also includes major contributions from studies of other vertebrates and of invertebrates. It covers some applications of animal-behavior knowledge to neuropsychology and behavioral pharmacology.
9.250 | Evolutionary Psychology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-250-evolutionary-psychology-spring-1999 | level:Graduate instructors:Steven Pinker term:Spring 1999 features: description:Current research on the evolution and development of cognition and affect, including intuitive physics, biology, and psychology, language, emotions, sexuality, and social relations.
9.285J | Neural Coding and Perception of Sound | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-723j-neural-coding-and-perception-of-sound-spring-2005 | textbook:Helmholtz, H. L. F. On the Sensations of Tone. Translated by A. J. Ellis. New York, NY: Dover, 1954. textbook:von Békésy, G. Experiments in Hearing. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1960. textbook:Evans, E. "The cochlear nerve and cochlear nucleus." In Handbook of Sensory Physiology. Edited by W. D. Keidel. Heidelberg, DE: Springer, 1974, pp. 1-109. textbook:Guinan, J. J., Jr. "Physiology of olivocochlear efferents." In The Cochlea. Edited by P. Dallos, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer, 1996, pp. 435-502. textbook:Kiang, N. Y. S. "Peripheral neural processing of auditory information." In Handbook of Physiology - The nervous system III. Section 1: The Nervous System. Vol. III. Sensory Processes. Part 2. Edited by J. M. Brookhart, V. B. Mountcastle, I. Darian-Smith, and S. R. Geiger. Bethesda, MD: American Physiological Society, 1981. textbook:Delgutte, B. "Auditory neural processing of speech." In The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by W. J. Hardcastle, and J. Laver. Oxford, UK: Blackwell, 1999. pp. 507-538. textbook:Pickles, J. O. An Introduction to the Physiology of Hearing. London, UK: Academic Press, 1988. textbook:Evans, E. F. "Frequency selectivity at high signal levels of single units in cochlear nerve and cochlear nucleus." In Psychophysics and Physiology of Hearing. Edited by E. F. Evans, and J. P. Wilson. London, UK: Academic Press, 1977, pp. 185-192. textbook:Javel, E., J. A. McGee, W. Horst, and G. R. Farley. "Temporal mechanisms in auditory stimulus coding." In Auditory Function: Neurological Bases of Hearing. Edited by G. M. Edelman, W. E. Gall, and W. M. Cowan. New York, NY: Wiley, 1988, pp. 515-558. textbook:Kiang, N. Y. S., T. Watanabe, E. C. Thomas, and L. F. Clark. Discharge Patterns of Single Fibers in the Cat's Auditory Nerve . Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1966. textbook:Liberman, M. C., and M. J. Mulroy. "Acute and chronic effects of acoustic trauma: Cochlear pathology and auditory nerve pathophysiology." In New Perspectives on Noise-induced Hearing Loss. Edited by R. P. Hamernik, D. Henderson, and R. Salvi. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1981, pp. 105-135. textbook:Moore, B. C. J. An Introduction to the Psychology of Hearing. 5th ed. London, UK: Academic Press, 2003. textbook:Blauert, J. Spatial Hearing: The Psychophysics of Human Sound Localization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:Moore, B. C. J., ed. Frequency Selectivity in Hearing. London, UK; Orlando, FL: Academic Press, 1987. textbook:Darwin, C. J., and R. P. Carlyon. "Auditory grouping." In Handbook of Perception and Cognition: Hearing. Edited by Brian Moore. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1995. textbook:Bregman, Albert S. Auditory Scene Analysis. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bertrand Delgutte,  Jennifer R. Melcher,  John Guinan, Jr.,  M. Christian Brown,  Andrew Oxenham term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course focuses on neural structures and mechanisms mediating the detection, localization and recognition of sounds. Discussions cover how acoustic signals are coded by auditory neurons, the impact of these codes on behavioral performance, and the circuitry and cellular mechanisms underlying signal transformations. Topics include temporal coding, neural maps and feature detectors, learning and plasticity, and feedback control. General principles are conveyed by theme discussions of auditory masking, sound localization, musical pitch, speech coding, and cochlear implants.
9.301J | Neural Plasticity in Learning and Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-301j-neural-plasticity-in-learning-and-development-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Earl Miller,  Guosong Liu,  Matt Wilson,  Susumu Tonegawa,  William Quinn term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Roles of neural plasticity in learning and memory and in development of invertebrates and mammals. An in-depth critical analysis of current literature of molecular, cellular, genetic, electrophysiological, and behavioral studies. Discussion of original papers supplemented by introductory lectures.
9.322J | Genetic Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-322j-genetic-neurobiology-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Troy Littleton,  William Quinn term:Fall 2005 features: description:This course deals with the specific functions of neurons, the interactions of neurons in development, and the organization of neuronal ensembles to produce behavior. Topics covered include the analysis of mutations, and molecular analysis of the genes required for nervous system function. In particular, this course focuses on research work done with nematodes, fruit flies, mice, and humans.
9.357 | Special Topics in Vision Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-357-special-topics-in-vision-science-fall-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Edward Adelson term:Fall 2001 features: description:An advanced seminar on issues of current interest in human and machine vision. Topics vary from year to year. This year, the class will involve studying the perception of materials. Participants discuss current literature as well as their ongoing research. Topics are tackled from multiple standpoints, including optics, psychophysics, computer graphics and computer vision.
9.520 | Statistical Learning Theory and Applications		 (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-520-statistical-learning-theory-and-applications-spring-2006 | textbook:Vapnik, V. The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1995. textbook:———. Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1998. textbook:Devroye, L., L. Gyorfi, and G. Lugosi. A Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Springer, 1997. textbook:Cristianini, N., and J. Shawe-Taylor. Introduction To Support Vector Machines. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Tomaso Poggio term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is for upper-level graduate students who are planning careers in computational neuroscience. This course focuses on the problem of supervised learning from the perspective of modern statistical learning theory starting with the theory of multivariate function approximation from sparse data. It develops basic tools such as Regularization including Support Vector Machines for regression and classification. It derives generalization bounds using both stability and VC theory. It also discusses topics such as boosting and feature selection and examines applications in several areas: Computer Vision, Computer Graphics, Text Classification, and Bioinformatics. The final projects, hands-on applications, and exercises are designed to&nbsp;illustrate the rapidly increasing practical uses of the techniques described throughout the course.
9.520 | Statistical Learning Theory and Applications		 (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-520-statistical-learning-theory-and-applications-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Ryan Rifkin, Dr. Sayan Mukherjee,  Tomaso Poggio,  Alex Rakhlin term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:Focuses on the problem of supervised learning from the perspective of modern statistical learning theory starting with the theory of multivariate function approximation from sparse data. Develops basic tools such as Regularization including Support Vector Machines for regression and classification. Derives generalization bounds using both stability and VC theory. Discusses topics such as boosting and feature selection. Examines applications in several areas: computer vision, computer graphics, text classification and bioinformatics. Final projects and hands-on applications and exercises are planned, paralleling the rapidly increasing practical uses of the techniques described in the subject.
9.520-A | Networks for Learning: Regression and Classification | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-520-a-networks-for-learning-regression-and-classification-spring-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Tomaso Poggio, Dr. Alessandro Verri term:Spring 2001 features: description:The course focuses on the problem of supervised learning within the framework of Statistical Learning Theory. It starts with a review of classical statistical techniques, including Regularization Theory in RKHS for multivariate function approximation from sparse data. Next, VC theory is discussed in detail and used to justify classification and regression techniques such as Regularization Networks and Support Vector Machines. Selected topics such as boosting, feature selection and multiclass classification will complete the theory part of the course. During the course we will examine applications of several learning techniques in areas such as computer vision, computer graphics, database search and time-series analysis and prediction. We will briefly discuss implications of learning theories for how the brain may learn from experience, focusing on the neurobiology of object recognition. We plan to emphasize hands-on applications and exercises, paralleling the rapidly increasing practical uses of the techniques described in the subject.
9.530 | Cellular and Molecular Computation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-530-cellular-and-molecular-computation-spring-2000 | level:Graduate instructors:Sebastian Seung term:Spring 2000 features: description:Life as an emergent property of networks of chemical reactions involving proteins and nucleic acids. Mathematical theories of metabolism, gene regulation, signal transduction, chemotaxis, excitability, motility, mitosis, development, and immunity. Applications to directed molecular evolution, DNA computing, and metabolic and genetic engineering.
9.531J | Systems Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:The following sections from  Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York: Garland Science, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Alexander van Oudenaarden term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course introduces the mathematical modeling techniques needed to address key questions in modern biology. An overview of modeling techniques in molecular biology and genetics, cell biology and developmental biology is covered. Key experiments that validate mathematical models are also discussed, as well as molecular, cellular, and developmental systems biology, bacterial chemotaxis, genetic oscillators, control theory and genetic networks, and gradient sensing systems. Additional specific topics include: constructing and modeling of genetic networks, lambda phage as a genetic switch, synthetic genetic switches, circadian rhythms, reaction diffusion equations, local activation and global inhibition models, center finding networks, general pattern formation models, modeling cell-cell communication, quorum sensing, and finally, models for Drosophila development.
9.587J | The Lexicon and Its Features | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-941j-the-lexicon-and-its-features-spring-2007 | textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 1-2. textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 3-6. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Underspecification and Markedness." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Closure, Release, and Nasal Conditions." In Phonetics and Phonology 5: Nasals, Nasalization, and the Velum. Edited by Marie Huffman and Rena Krakow. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1993. textbook:———. "Paradigm Uniformity and the Phonetics-Phonology Boundary." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology V: Acquisition and the Lexicon. Edited by Michael B. Broe and Janet B. Pierrehumbert. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Wright, R. "Factors of Lexical Competition in Vowel Articulation." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology VI. Edited by John Local, Richard Ogden, and Rosalind Temple. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Remez, Robert. "A Guide to Research on the Perception of Speech." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Kenstowicz, Michael, and Charles Kisseberth. "Phonological Sketches." Chapter 4 in Generative Phonology: Description and Theory. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Articulatory-Acoustic-Auditory Relationships." Chapter 15 in The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by William J. Hardcastle and John Laver. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 1997/1999. textbook:Halle, M., and Kenneth N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK: Palgrave Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "The Dispersion Theory of Contrast." Chapter 2 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clements, G. N., and Elizabeth V. Hume. "The Internal Organization of Speech Sounds." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996, pp. 245-306. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "Auditory Features in Phonology." Chapter 1 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clemens, G. N. "Representational Economy in Constraint-based Phonology." In Distinctive Feature Theory. Edited by T. Alan Hall. New York, NY: Mouton de Gruyter, 2001. textbook:Mielke, Jeff. The Emergence of Distinctive Features. Ohio State University dissertation, 2004. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Peperkamp, Sharon, Katrin Skoruppa, and emmanual Dupoux. "The Role of Phonetic Naturalness in Phonological Rule Acquisition." Proceedings of the 30th Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development. Vol. 1. Edited by David Bamman, Tatiana Magnitskaia, and Colleen Zaller. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press, 2006, pp. 464-475. textbook:Luce, Paul A., David B. Pisoni, and Steven D. Goldinger. "Similarity Neighborhoods of Spoken Words." Cognitive Models of Speech Processing: Psycholinguistic and Computational Perspectives. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:Johnson, Keith. "Speaker Normalization in Speech Perception." In The Handbook of Speech Perception. Edited by David Pisoni and Robert Remez. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2005, pp. 363-389. textbook:Fitzpatrick, J., and L. R. Wheeldon. "Phonology and Phonetics in Psycholinguistic Models of Speech Perception." In Phonological Knowledge: Conceptual and Empirical Knowledge. Edited by Noel Burton-Roberts, Philip Carr, and Gerard Dougherty. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Pierrehumbert, Janet. "Exemplar Dynamics: Word Frequency, Lenition, and Contrast." In Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Edited by Joan L. Bybee and Paul Hopper. Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2001. textbook:Segui, Juan, and Ludovic Ferrand. "The Role of the Syllable in Speech Perception and Production." In Phonetics, Phonology, and Cognition. Edited by Jaques Durand and Bernard Laks. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Massaro, Dominic W. "Psychological Aspects of Speech Perception: Implications for Research and Theory." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Repp, Bruno H., and Alvin M. Liberman. "Phonetic Category Boundaries are Flexible." In Categorical Perception: The Groundwork of Cognition. Edited by S. Harnad. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. David Gow,  Donca Steriade,  Edward Flemming,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course provides an overview of the distinctive features which distinguish sound categories of languages of the world. Theories which relate these categories to their acoustic and articulatory correlates, both universally and in particular languages, are covered. Models of word recognition by listeners, features, and phonological structure are also discussed. In addition, the course offers a variety of perspectives on these issues, drawn from Electrical Engineering, Linguistics and Cognitive Science.
9.591J | Language Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-591j-language-processing-fall-2004 | textbook:Trueswell, J. C., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Toward a lexicalist framework of constraint based syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 155-180. textbook:Gibson, E. "The dependency locality theory: A distance-based theory of linguistic complexity." In Image, Language, Brain. Edited by Y. Miyashita, A. Marantz, and W. O'Neil. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, pp. 95-126. textbook:Wolf, F., and E. Gibson. "Parsing: Overview." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Jurafsky, D., and J. H. Martin. "Discourse." Chapter 18 in Speech and language processing: An introduction to NLP, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. textbook:Spivey-Knowlton, M., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Referential context and syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 415-439. textbook:Osterhout, L. "Event-related brain potentials as tools." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 15-44. textbook:Jurafsky, D., and J. H. Martin. "Discourse." Chapter 18 in Speech and language processing: An introduction to NLP, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. textbook:Ferreira, F. "Prosody." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Edward Gibson term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is a seminar in real-time language comprehension. It considers models of sentence and discourse comprehension from the linguistic, psychology, and artificial intelligence literature, including symbolic and connectionist models. Topics include ambiguity resolution and linguistic complexity; the use of lexical, syntactic, semantic, pragmatic, contextual and prosodic information in language comprehension; the relationship between the computational resources available in working memory and the language processing mechanism; and the psychological reality of linguistic representations.
9.601J | Language Acquisition I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-601j-language-acquisition-i-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Ken Wexler term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:Lectures, reading, and discussion of current theory and data concerning the psychology and biology of language acquisition. Emphasizes learning of syntax and morphology, together with some discussion of phonology, and especially research relating grammatical theory and learnability theory to empirical studies of children.
9.611J | Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-863j-natural-language-and-the-computer-representation-of-knowledge-spring-2003 | textbook:The page numbers below refer to readings in the course textbook: Jurafsky, and Martin. Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Robert Berwick term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:6.863 is a laboratory-oriented course on the theory and practice of building computer systems for human language processing, with an emphasis on the linguistic, cognitive, and engineering foundations for understanding their design.
9.641J | Introduction to Neural Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-641j-introduction-to-neural-networks-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Sebastian Seung term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course explores the organization of synaptic connectivity as the basis of neural computation and learning. Perceptrons and dynamical theories of recurrent networks including amplifiers, attractors, and hybrid computation are covered. Additional topics include backpropagation and Hebbian learning, as well as models of perception, motor control, memory, and neural development.
9.675 | The Development of Object and Face Recognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-675-the-development-of-object-and-face-recognition-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Pawan Sinha term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course takes a 'back to the beginning' view that aims to better understand the end result. What might be the developmental processes that lead to the organization of 'booming, buzzing confusions' into coherent visual objects? This course examines key experimental results and computational proposals pertinent to the discovery of objects in complex visual inputs. The structure of the course is designed to get students to learn and to focus on the genre of study as a whole; to get a feel for how science is done in this field.
9.911 | Reasonable Conduct in Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-911-reasonable-conduct-in-science-january-iap-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Matthew Wilson term:January IAP 2002 features: description:To provide instruction and dialog on practical ethical issues relating to the responsible conduct of human and animal research in the brain and cognitive sciences. Specific emphasis will be placed on topics relevant to young researchers including data handling, animal and human subjects, misconduct, mentoring, intellectual property, and publication.
9.912 | Special Topics in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-912-special-topics-in-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-fall-2001 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Anthony Wagner term:Fall 2001 features: description:Memory is not a unitary faculty, but rather consists of multiple forms of learning that differ in their operating characteristics and neurobiological substrates. This seminar will consider current debates regarding the cognitive and neural architectures of memory, specifically focusing on recent efforts to address these controversies through application of functional neuroimaging (primarily fMRI and PET).
9.913 | Pattern Recognition for Machine Vision | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-913-pattern-recognition-for-machine-vision-fall-2004 | textbook:Duda, Richard O., Peter E. Hart, and David G. Stork. Pattern classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 2001. textbook:Mallot, Hanspeter A. Computational Vision: Information Processing in Perception and Visual Behavior. Translated by John S. Allen. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Forsyth, David A., and Jean Ponce. Computer Vision: a Modern Approach. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Hastie, Trevor, Robert Tibshirani, and Jerome Friedman. The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction: with 200 full-color illustrations. New York, NY: Springer, c2001. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bernd Heisele, Dr. Yuri Ivanov term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:The applications of pattern recognition techniques to problems of machine vision is the main focus for this course. Topics covered include, an overview of problems of machine vision and pattern classification, image formation and processing, feature extraction from images, biological object recognition, bayesian decision theory, and clustering.
9.913-A | Intensive Neuroanatomy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-913-a-intensive-neuroanatomy-january-iap-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi term:January IAP 2002 features: description:The course will start with an overview of the central and peripheral nervous systems (CNS and PNS), the development of their structure and major divisions. The major functional components of the CNS will then be reviewed individually. Topography, functional distribution of nerve cell bodies, ascending and descending tracts in the spinal cord. Brainstem organization and functional components, including cranial nerve nuclei, ascending / descending pathways, amine-containing cells, structure and information flow in the cerebellar and vestibular systems. Distribution of the cranial nerves, resolution of their skeletal and branchial arch components. Functional divisions of the Diencephalon and Telencephalon. The course will then continue with how these various CNS pieces and parts work together. Motor systems, motor neurons and motor units, medial and lateral pathways, cortical versus cerebellar systems and their functional integration. The sensory systems, visual, auditory and somatosensory. Olfaction will be covered in the context of the limbic system, which will also include autonomic control and the Papez circuit. To conclude, functional organization and information flow in the neocortex will be discussed.
9.914 | Special Topics: Genetics, Neurobiology, and Pathophysiology of Psychiatric Disorders | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-914-special-topics-genetics-neurobiology-and-pathophysiology-of-psychiatric-disorders-fall-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:Edward Scolnick,  Li-Huei Tsai term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes description:An opportunity for graduate study of advanced subjects in Brain and Cognitive Sciences not included in other subject listings. The key topics covered in this course are Bipolar Disorder, Psychosis, Schizophrenia, Genetics of Psychiatric Disorder, DISC1, Ca++ Signaling, Neurogenesis and Depression, Lithium and GSK3 Hypothesis, Behavioral Assays, CREB in Addiction and Depressive Behaviors, The GABA System-I, The GABA System-II, The Glutamate Hypothesis of Schizophrenia, The Dopamine Pathway and DARPP32.
9.916 | Special Topics: Social Animals | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-916-special-topics-social-animals-fall-2009 | textbook:Tomasello, M. "Born (and Bred) to Help." In Why We Cooperate. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2009. textbook:Henrich, J., and N. Henrich. "Evolutionary Theory and the Social Psychology of Human Cooperation." In Why Humans Cooperate. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2007. textbook:Tomasello, M. "Born (and Bred) to Help." In Why We Cooperate. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2009. textbook:Decety, J., and W. Ickes. "These Things Called Empathy: Eight Related but Distinct Phenomena." In The Social Neuroscience of Empathy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2009. textbook:Platek, S. M., J. P. Keenan, and T. K. Shackelford. "The Evolution of Human Mindreading: How Non-Human Primates can Inform Social Cognitive Nuroscience". In Evolutionary Cognitive Neuroscience. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2006. textbook:Banks, W. "Theory of Mind." In Encyclopedia of Consciousness. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2009. textbook:Brown, R. "Social Forces in Obedience and Rebellion." In Social Psychology. New York, NY: Free Press, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Rebecca Saxe term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes description:Humans are social animals; social demands, both cooperative and competitive, structure our development, our brain and our mind. This course covers social development, social behaviour, social cognition and social neuroscience, in both human and non-human social animals. Topics include altruism, empathy, communication, theory of mind, aggression, power, groups, mating, and morality. Methods include evolutionary biology, neuroscience, cognitive science, social psychology and anthropology.
9.916 | The Neural Basis of Visual Object Recognition in Monkeys and Humans | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-916-the-neural-basis-of-visual-object-recognition-in-monkeys-and-humans-spring-2005 | textbook:Ullman, S. High-level Vision. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996, chapters 1 and 2. textbook:Kandel, and Schwartz. Principles of Neural Science. 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, Health Professions Division, c2000, chapters 25, 27, 28. textbook:Chalupa, and Werner. The Visual Neurosciences. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, November 2003, chapter 78. textbook:Barlow, H. "The neuron doctrine in perception." In The Cognitive Neurosciences. Edited by M. Gazzaniga. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 415-435. textbook:Kanwisher, N. Chalupa, and Werner. The Visual Neurosciences. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, November 2003, chapter 79. textbook:Ullman. "Approaches to Visual Recognition." In Functional Neuroimaging of Visual Cognition. Edited by Kanwisher, and Duncan. A&P XX volume. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Ashbridge, E., and D. I. Perrett. "Generalizing across object orientation and size." In Perceptual Constancy. Edited by V. Walsh, and J. Kulikowski. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998, pp. 192-209. textbook:Gross, C. G., and M. Mishkin. "The neural basis of stimulus equivalence across retinal translation." In Lateralization in the Nervous System. Edited by S. Harnad. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1977, pp. 109-122. textbook:Treisman, A. "Psychological Issues in Selective Attention." In The Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Gazzaniga. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, c2004. textbook:Freiwald, W. A., and N. Kanwisher. "Visual Selective Attention: insights from Brain Imaging and Neurophysiology." In The Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Gazzaniga. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, c2004. level:Graduate instructors:James DiCarlo,  Nancy Kanwisher term:Spring 2005 features: description:Understanding the brain's remarkable ability for visual object recognition is one of the greatest challenges of brain research. The goal of this course is to provide an overview of key issues of object representation and to survey data from primate physiology and human fMRI that bear on those issues. Topics include the computational problems of object representation, the nature of object representations in the brain, the tolerance and selectivity of those representations, and the effects of attention and learning.
9.916 | Modularity, Domain-specificity, and the Organization of Knowledge | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-916-modularity-domain-specificity-and-the-organization-of-knowledge-fall-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Elizabeth S. Spelke,  Nancy Kanwisher term:Fall 2001 features: description:This course will consider the degree and nature of the modular organization of the mind and brain. We will focus in detail on the domains of objects, number, places, and people,&#160;drawing on evidence from behavioral studies in human infants, children, normal adults, neurological patients, and animals, as well as from studies using neural measures such as functional brain imaging and ERPs. With these domains as examples, we will address broader questions about the role of domain-general and domain-specific processing systems in mature human performance, the innateness vs. plasticity of encapsulated cognitive systems, the nature of the evidence for such systems, and the processes by which people link information flexibly across domains.
9.916-A | Probability and Causality in Human Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-916-a-probability-and-causality-in-human-cognition-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Joshua Tenenbaum term:Spring 2003 features: description:Probability theory captures a number of essential characteristics of human cognition, including aspects of perception, reasoning, belief revision, and learning. Expressions of degree of belief were used in language long before people began codifying the laws of probability theory. This course explores the history and debates over codifying the laws of probability, how probability theory applies to specific cognitive processes, how it relates to the human understanding of causality, and how new computational approaches to causal modeling provide a framework for understanding human probabilistic reasoning.This class is suitable for advanced undergraduates or graduate students specializing in cognitive science, artificial intelligence, and related fields.
9.95-A | Research Topics in Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-95-a-research-topics-in-neuroscience-january-iap-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Peter H. Schiller term:January IAP 2003 features: description:This series of research talks by members of the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences introduces students to different approaches to the study of the brain and mind.Topics include:From Neurons to Neural NetworksPrefrontal Cortex and the Neural Basis of Cognitive ControlHippocampal Memory Formation and the Role of SleepThe Formation of Internal Modes for Learning Motor SkillsLook and See: How the Brain Selects Objects and Directs the EyesHow the Brain Wires Itself
9.96 | Experimental Methods of Adjustable Tetrode Array Neurophysiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-96-experimental-methods-of-adjustable-tetrode-array-neurophysiology-january-iap-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Matthew Wilson term:January IAP 2001 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:Students will be exposed to all aspects of a cutting-edge technique in modern electrophysiology, in a highly structured, team oriented environment. The research projects will probe the neural mechanisms of learning and memory through tetrode array recordings coupled with patterned microstimulation. Due to the broad nature of tasks to be completed, coupled with the team oriented approach we will be employing, we are interested in students with a wide variety of laboratory experience and skill levels.
10.010J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
10.333J | Introduction to Modeling and Simulation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-021j-introduction-to-modeling-and-simulation-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Markus Buehler,  Jeffrey Grossman term:Spring 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject provides an introduction to modeling and simulation, covering continuum methods, atomistic and molecular simulation, and quantum mechanics. Hands-on training is provided in the fundamentals and applications of these methods to key engineering problems. The lectures provide exposure to areas of application based on the scientific exploitation of the power of computation. We use web based applets for simulations, thus extensive programming skills are not required.
10.37 | Chemical and Biological Reaction Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemical-engineering/10-37-chemical-and-biological-reaction-engineering-spring-2007 | textbook:Fogler, H. S. Elements of Chemical Reaction Engineering. 4th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall PTR, 2006. textbook:Levenspiel, O. Chemical Reaction Engineering. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 1999. textbook:Smith, J. Chemical Engineering Kinetics. 3rd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1981. textbook:Steinfeld, J. I., J. S. Francisco, and W. L. Hase. Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1999. textbook:Bailey, J. E., and D. F. Ollis. Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1986. textbook:Stephanopoulos, G., A. Aristidou, and J. Nielsen. Metabolic Engineering: Principles and Methodologies. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1998. level:Undergraduate instructors:K. Dane Wittrup,  William Green, Jr. term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course applies the concepts of reaction rate, stoichiometry and equilibrium to the analysis of chemical and biological reacting systems, derivation of rate expressions from reaction mechanisms and equilibrium or steady state assumptions, design of chemical and biochemical reactors via synthesis of chemical kinetics, transport phenomena, and mass and energy balances. Topics covered include: chemical/biochemical pathways; enzymatic, pathway, and cell growth kinetics; batch, plug flow and well-stirred reactors for chemical reactions and cultivations of microorganisms and mammalian cells; heterogeneous and enzymatic catalysis; heat and mass transport in reactors, including diffusion to and within catalyst particles and cells or immobilized enzymes.
10.442 | Biochemical Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemical-engineering/10-442-biochemical-engineering-spring-2005 | textbook:[S&K]  Shuler, Michael L., and Fikret Kargi. Bioprocess Engineering: Basic Concepts. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall PTR, 2001. textbook:Blanch, Harvey W., and D. S. Clark, eds. Biochemical Engineering. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker Incorporated, 1997. textbook:Bailey, James E., and David F. Ollis. Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Education, 1986. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Kristala L. Jones Prather term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course focuses on the interaction of chemical engineering, biochemistry, and microbiology. Mathematical representations of microbial systems are featured among lecture topics. Kinetics of growth, death, and metabolism are also covered. Continuous fermentation, agitation, mass transfer, and scale-up in fermentation systems, and enzyme technology round out the subject material.
10.445 | Separation Processes for Biochemical Products | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemical-engineering/10-445-separation-processes-for-biochemical-products-summer-2005 | textbook:Shutte, H., and M. R. Kula. "Cell Disruption and Isolation of Non-Secreted Products." In Biotechnology: A Multi-Volume Comprehensive Treatise. Vol. 3, Bioprocessing. Edited by G. Stephanopoulos. New York, NY: VCH Publishers, Inc., 1993, pp. 505-526. textbook:Datar, R. V., and C. G. Rosen. "Cell and Cell Debris Removal: Centrifugation and Crossflow Filtration." In Biotechnology: A Multi-Volume Comprehensive Treatise. Vol. 3, Bioprocessing. Edited by G. Stephanopoulos. New York, NY: VCH Publishers, Inc., 1996, pp. 469-486. textbook:Palmer, D. E., and R. V. Dove. "Ion Exchange Recovery of Proteins." In Comprehensive Biotechnology. Vol. 2, The Principles of Biotechnology: Engineering Considerations. Edited by C. L. Cooney, and A. E. Humphrey. Elmsford, NY: Pergamon Press Ltd., 1985, pp. 481-488. textbook:Yarmush, M. L., K. Antonsen, and D. M. Yarmush. "Molecular Sieve Chromatography." In Comprehensive Biotechnology. Vol. 2, The Principles of Biotechnology: Engineering Considerations. Edited by C. L. Cooney, and A. E. Humphrey. Elmsford, NY: Pergamon Press Ltd., 1985, pp. 489-505. textbook:Skoog, D. A., D. M. West, and F. J. Holler. "An Introduction to Chromatographic Methods." In Fundamentals of Analytical Chemistry. New York, NY: Saunders College Publishing, 1992, pp. 665-693. textbook:Cleland, J. L., and D. I. C. Wang. "In vitro Protein Refolding." In Biotechnology: A Multi-Volume Comprehensive Treatise. Vol. 3, Bioprocessing. Edited by G. Stephanopoulos. New York, NY: VCH Publishers, Inc., 1996, pp. 527-555. textbook:Ladisch, M. R. "Filtration." In Bioseparations Engineering: Principles, Practice, and Economics. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 2001, pp. 36-47. textbook:Datar, R. V., and C. G. Rosen. "Cell and Cell Debris Removal: Centrifugation and Crossflow Filtration." In Biotechnology: A Multi-Volume Comprehensive Treatise. Vol. 3, Bioprocessing. Edited by G. Stephanopoulos. New York, NY: VCH Publishers, Inc., 1996, pp. 487-503. textbook:Tutunjian, R. S. "Ultrafiltration Processes in Biotechnology." In Comprehensive Biotechnology. Vol. 2, The Principles of Biotechnology: Engineering Considerations. Edited by C. L. Cooney, and A. E. Humphrey. Elmsford, NY: Pergamon Press Ltd., 1985, pp. 411-437. textbook:Shuler, M. L., and F. Kargi. "Separation of Soluble Products." In Bioprocess Engineeing. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall PTR, 1991, pp. 325-331. textbook:Kelly, B. D., and T. A. Hatton. "Protein Purification by Liquid-Liquid Extraction." In Biotechnology: A Multi-Volume Comprehensive Treatise. Vol. 3, Bioprocessing. Edited by G. Stephanopoulos. New York, NY: VCH Publishers, Inc., 1996, pp. 593-616. textbook:Petrides, D., C. L. Cooney, and L. B. Evans. "An Introduction to Biochemical Process Design." In Chemical Engineering Problems in Biotechnology. Edited by M. L. Shuler. New York, NY: American Institute of Chemical Engineers, 1989, pp. 351-391. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Charles Cooney term:Summer 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course serves as an introduction to the fundamental principles of separation operations for the recovery of products from biological processes, membrane filtration, chromatography, centrifugation, cell disruption, extraction, and process design. This course was last taught during the regular school year in the Spring semester of 1999, but has been a part of the MIT Technology and Development Program (TDP) at the Malaysia University of Science and Technology (MUST), as well as at MIT's Professional Institute in more recent years.
10.702 | Experimental Biology & Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-02-experimental-biology-communication-spring-2005 | textbook:Purves, William K., et. al. Life: The Science of Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates; Gordonsville, VA: W. H. Freeman and Co., 2003. textbook:Maloy, Stanley R., John E. Cronan, Jr., and David Freifelder. Microbial Genetics. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 1994. textbook:Moran, Laurence A., et. al. Biochemistry. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1994. textbook:Gilbert, Scott F. Developmental Biology. 7th ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jonathan King,  Leonard Guarente,  Lisa Steiner,  Uttam RajBhandary term:Spring 2005 features:Demonstration - video description:This introductory biology laboratory course covers the application of experimental techniques in microbiology, biochemistry, cell and developmental biology. Emphasis is placed on the integration of factual knowledge with understanding of the design of the experiments and data analysis in order to prepare the students for future research projects. Development of skills critical for writing about scientific findings in modern biology is also covered in the Scientific Communications portion of the curriculum, 7.02CI.Additional FacultyDr. Katherine Bacon SchneiderDr. Jean-Francois HamelMs. Deborah KruzelDr. Megan Rokop
10.702CI | Experimental Biology - Communications Intensive | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-02ci-experimental-biology-communications-intensive-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Marilee Ogren-Balkema, Dr. Neal Lerner term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course is the scientific communications portion of course 7.02, Experimental Biology and Communication. Students develop their skills as writers of scientific research, skills that also contribute to the learning of the 7.02 course materials. Through in class and out of class writing exercises, students explore the genre of the research article and its components while developing an understanding of the materials covered in the 7.02 laboratory.
10.537 | Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics (BE.410J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-410j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-be-410j-spring-2003 | textbook:Daune, Michel. Chapter 2 in Molecular Biophysics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Dill, K. A., and S. Bromberg. Chapters 6, 8 and 10 in Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Boal, David H. Chapter 2 in Mechanics of the Cell. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Howard, Johnathon. Chapters 5 and 10 in Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Ward, J. P. Solid Mechanics. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Lodish, H., et. al. Molecular Cell Biology. 3rd. ed. New York, NY: Scientific American Books/W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Malvern, Lawrence E. Chapter 6 in Introduction to the Mechanics of a Continuous Medium. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1969, pp. 278-282. textbook:Fung, Y. C. Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:Ferry, J. D. "The Nature of Viscoelastic Behavior." Chapter 1 in Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. level:Graduate instructors:Roger D. Kamm,  Patrick Doyle,  Maxine Jonas<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales. Topics include: structure of tissues and the molecular basis for macroscopic properties; chemical and electrical effects on mechanical behavior; cell mechanics, motility and adhesion; biomembranes; biomolecular mechanics and molecular motors. Experimental methods for probing structures at the tissue, cellular, and molecular levels will also be investigated.This course was originally co-developed by Professors Alan Grodzinsky, Roger Kamm, and L. Mahadevan.
10.538J | Biomolecular Kinetics and Cellular Dynamics (BE.420J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-420j-biomolecular-kinetics-and-cellular-dynamics-be-420j-fall-2004 | textbook:Lauffenburger, Douglas A., and J. Jennifer Linderman. Receptors: Models for Binding, Trafficking, and Signaling. New York: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Hammes, Gordon G. Thermodynamics and Kinetics for the Biological Sciences. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 2000. textbook:Creighton, Thomas E. Proteins: Structures and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1993. textbook:Bailey, James, and David F. Ollis. Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals. 2nd ed. Burr Ridge, IL: McGraw Hill Higher Education, 1986. textbook:Steinfeld, Jeffrey I., J. S. Francisco, and W. L. Hase. Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics. 2nd ed. E. Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall PTR, 1998. textbook:Cantor, Charles R., and Paul R. Schimmel. Biophysical Chemistry. New York, NY: Worth Publishers, 1980. textbook:Blanch, Harvey W., and D. S. Clark, eds. Biochemical Engineering. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, 1997. textbook:Shargel, Leon, et al. Applied Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, 2004. textbook:Carberry, James J. Chemical and Catalytic Reaction Engineering. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1976. textbook:Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Cambridge, MA: Perseus Publishing, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Tidor,  Karl Wittrup term:Fall 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject deals primarily with kinetic and equilibrium mathematical models of biomolecular interactions, as well as the application of these quantitative analyses to biological problems across a wide range of levels of organization, from individual molecular interactions to populations of cells.
10.548J | Tumor Pathophysiology and Transport Phenomena | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-525j-tumor-pathophysiology-and-transport-phenomena-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Rakesh Jain<br/>(Course Director) term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:Tumor pathophysiology plays a central role in the growth, invasion, metastasis and treatment of solid tumors. This class applies principles of transport phenomena to develop a systems-level, quantitative understanding of angiogenesis, blood flow and microcirculation, metabolism and microenvironment, transport and binding of small and large molecules, movement of cancer and immune cells, metastatic process, and treatment response.Additional FacultyDr. Pat D'AmoreDr. Dan DudaDr. Robert LangerProf. Robert WeinbergDr. Marsha MosesDr. Raghu KalluriDr. Lance Munn
5.08J | Biological Chemistry II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-08j-biological-chemistry-ii-spring-2004 | textbook:Readings by lecture session (L#) are listed in the table below. Many of the readings are from the required textbook:  Voet, D., J. Voet. Biochemistry. New York: J. Wiley & Sons, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:JoAnne Stubbe,  Alice Ting term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course deals with a more advanced treatment of the biochemical mechanisms that underlie biological processes. Emphasis will be given&nbsp;to the experimental methods used to unravel how these processes fit into the cellular context as well as the coordinated regulation of these processes. Topics include macromolecular machines for energy and force transduction, regulation of biosynthetic and degradative pathways, and the structure and function of nucleic acids.
5.12 | Organic Chemistry I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-12-organic-chemistry-i-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sarah Tabacco,  Barbara Imperiali term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:5.12 is an introduction to organic chemistry, focusing primarily on the basic principles to understand the structure and reactivity of organic molecules. Emphasis is on substitution and elimination reactions and chemistry of the carbonyl group. The course also provides an introduction to the chemistry of aromatic compounds.
5.13 | Organic Chemistry II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-13-organic-chemistry-ii-fall-2003 | textbook:Wade, L. G. Organic Chemistry. 5th ed. New Jersey: Prentice Hall/Pearson Education, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Sarah Tabacco,  Timothy F. Jamison term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This intermediate organic chemistry course focuses on the methods used to identify the structure of organic molecules, advanced principles of organic stereochemistry, organic reaction mechanisms, and methods used for the synthesis of organic compounds. Additional special topics include illustrating the role of organic chemistry in biology, medicine, and industry.
5.22J | Biological Engineering Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-380j-biological-engineering-design-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:John Essigmann,  Darrell Irvine,  Forest White, Dr. Atissa Banuazizi<br/>(Writing Instructor), Mr. Harlan Breindel<br/>(Writing Instructor), Dr. Mya Poe<br/>(Writing Instructor) term:Spring 2010 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course illustrates how knowledge and principles of biology, biochemistry, and engineering are integrated to create new products for societal benefit. It uses a case study format to examine recently developed products of pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries: how a product evolves from initial idea, through patents, testing, evaluation, production, and marketing. Emphasizes scientific and engineering principles; the responsibility scientists, engineers, and business executives have for the consequences of their technology; and instruction and practice in written and oral communication. The topic focus of this class will vary from year to year. This version looks at inflammation underlying many diseases, specifically its role in cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.
5.36 | Biochemistry Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-36-biochemistry-laboratory-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Elizabeth Vogel Taylor term:Spring 2009 features:Image galleries, Lecture notes description:The course, which spans two thirds of a semester, provides students with a research-inspired laboratory experience that introduces standard biochemical techniques in the context of investigating a current and exciting research topic, acquired resistance to the cancer drug Gleevec. Techniques include protein expression, purification, and gel analysis, PCR, site-directed mutagenesis, kinase activity assays, and protein structure viewing.This class is part of the new laboratory curriculum in the MIT Department of Chemistry. Undergraduate Research-Inspired Experimental Chemistry Alternatives (URIECA) introduces students to cutting edge research topics in a modular format.AcknowledgmentsDevelopment of this course was funded through an HHMI Professors grant to Professor Catherine L. Drennan.
5.37 | Introduction to Organic Synthesis Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-37-introduction-to-organic-synthesis-laboratory-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Rick Danheiser,  Timothy Swager term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes description:This course, which spans a third of a semester, provides students with experience&nbsp;using techniques employed in synthetic organic chemistry. It also&nbsp;introduces them to the exciting research area of catalytic chiral catalysis.This class is part of the new laboratory curriculum in the MIT Department of Chemistry. Undergraduate Research-Inspired Experimental Chemistry Alternatives (URIECA) introduces students to cutting edge research topics in a modular format.
5.43 | Advanced Organic Chemistry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-43-advanced-organic-chemistry-spring-2007 | textbook:Carey, F. A., and R. J. Sundberg. Advanced Organic Chemistry, Part A: Structure and Mechanisms. 4th ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2000. textbook:Joule, J. A., and K. Mills. Heterocyclic Chemistry. 4th ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:Mohammad Movassaghi term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course deals with the application of structure and theory to the study of organic reaction mechanisms: Stereochemical features including conformation and stereoelectronic effects; reaction dynamics, isotope effects and molecular orbital theory applied to pericyclic and photochemical reactions; and special reactive intermediates including carbenes, carbanions, and free radicals.
5.601J | Thermodynamics of Biomolecular Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-110j-thermodynamics-of-biomolecular-systems-fall-2005 | textbook:[SAB]  Silbey, R., R. Alberty, and M. Bawendi. Physical Chemistry. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2004. textbook:[DB]  Dill, Ken A., and Sarina Bromberg. Molecular Driving Forces: Statistical Thermodynamics in Chemistry and Biology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kim Hamad-Schifferli,  Linda Griffith,  Moungi Bawendi,  Robert Field term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This subject deals primarily with equilibrium properties of macroscopic and microscopic systems, basic thermodynamics, chemical equilibrium of reactions in gas and solution phase, and macromolecular interactions.
5.44 | Organometallic Chemistry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-44-organometallic-chemistry-fall-2004 | textbook:Collman, James P., et al. Principles and Applications of Organotransition Metal Chemistry. Mill Valley, CA: University Science Books, 1987. level:Graduate instructors:Gregory Fu term:Fall 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course examines important transformations of organotransition-metal species with an emphasis on basic mechanisms, structure-reactivity relationships, and applications in organic synthesis.
5.451 | Chemistry of Biomolecules I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-451-chemistry-of-biomolecules-i-fall-2005 | textbook:Dewick, Paul M. Medicinal Natural Products: A Biosynthetic Approach. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Sarah O’Connor term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:5.451 is a half-semester introduction to natural product biosynthetic pathways. The course covers the assembly of complex polyketide, peptide, terpene and alkaloid structures. Discussion topics include chemical and biochemical strategies used to elucidate natural product pathways.
5.46 | Organic Structure Determination | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-46-organic-structure-determination-spring-2007 | textbook:Silverstein, R. M., F. X. Webster, and D. J. Kiemle. Spectrometric Identification of Organic Compounds. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2005. textbook:Pretsch, E., P. Bühlmann, and C. Affolter. Structure Determination of Organic Compounds: Tables of Spectral Data. Berlin; New York: Springer, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Jeff Simpson,  Timothy F. Jamison term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course covers modern and advanced methods of elucidation of the structures of organic molecules, including NMR, MS, and IR (among others). The fundamental physical and chemical principles of each method will be discussed. The major emphasis of this course is on structure determination by way of interpreting the data (generally in the form of a spectrum or spectra) that each method provides.
5.512 | Synthetic Organic Chemistry II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-512-synthetic-organic-chemistry-ii-spring-2005 | textbook:Gawley, Robert E., and Jeffrey Aubé. Principles of Asymmetric Synthesis. Oxford, UK: Pergamon, 1996. textbook:Carey, Frank A., and Richard J. Sundberg. Advanced Organic Chemistry. Part A. 4th ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2000, chapters 2 and 3. textbook:Eliel, Ernest L., and Samuel H. Wilen. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1994. textbook:Carey, and Sundberg. "Alkylation reactions." Chapter 1, "Aldol, Michael, Mannich reactions." Chapter 2, "Hydroboration." Chapter 4, "Organoboron, silicon, tin chemistry." Chapter 9, "Epoxidation." Chapter 12 in Advanced Organic Chemistry Part B. 4th ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. textbook:Hanessian, Stephen. Total Synthesis of Natural Products: The "Chiron" Approach. 1st ed. New York, NY: Pergamon Press, 1983. textbook:Ho, Tse-Lok. Enantioselective Synthesis: Natural Products from Chiral Terpenes. New York, NY: Wiley, 1992. textbook:Knochel, P. , and P. Jones. Organozinc Reagents: A Practical Approach in Chemistry. Edited by Thomas G. Bac. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Denmark, S. E., and N. G. Almstead. "Allylation of Carbonyls: Methodology and Stereochemistry." In Modern Carbonyl Chemistry. Edited by J. Otera. Vol XIX. Weinheim: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 299-402. textbook:Chemler, S. R., and W. R. Roush. "Recent Applications of the Allylation Reaction to the Synthesis of Natural Products." In Modern Carbonyl Chemistry. Edited by J. Otera. Vol. XIX. Weinheim: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 403-490. textbook:Szymoniak, J. and C. Moise. "Synthesis and Reactivity of Allyltitanium Derivatives." In Titanium and Zirconium in Organic Synthesis. Edited by I. Marek. Weinheim: Wiley-VCH, 2002, pp. 451-474. textbook:Carreira, E. M. "Recent Advances in Asymmetric Aldol Addition Reactions." In Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis. 2nd ed. Edited by Iwao Ojima. New York, NY: Wiley-VCH, 2000. textbook:———. "Aldol Reactions: Methodology and Stereochemistry." In Modern Carbonyl Chemistry. Edited by J. Otera. Vol. XIX. Weinheim: Wiley-VCH, 2000. textbook:Paterson, I., C. J. Cowden, and D. J. Wallace. "Stereoselective Aldol Reactions in the Synthesis of Polyketide Natural Products." In Modern Carbonyl Chemistry. Edited by J. Otera. Vol. XIX. Weinheim: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 249-298. textbook:Mahrwald, Rainer, ed. Modern Aldol Reactions. 2 vols. Foreword by David A. Evans. Weinheim: Wiley-VCH, 2004. textbook:Carreira, E. M. "Recent Advances in Asymmetric Aldol Addition Reactions." In Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis. 2nd ed. Edited by Iwao Ojima. New York, NY: Wiley-VCH, 2000. textbook:Ohkuma, T., M. Kitamura, and R. Noyori. "Asymmetric Hydrogenation." In Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis. 2nd ed. Edited by Iwao Ojima. New York, NY: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 1-110. textbook:Sundberg, Richard J., and Francis A. Carey. "Hydroboration," "Dihydroxylation," and "Epoxidation." Chapter 4, and 12 in Advanced Organic Chemistry, Part B: Reaction and Synthesis. 4th ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001, pp. 226-241, 757-762, and 762-782. textbook:Johnson, R. A., and K. B. Sharpless. "Catalytic Asymmetric Dihydroxylation: Discovery and Development." In Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis. 2nd ed. Edited by Iwao Ojima. New York, NY: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 357-398. textbook:Bolm, C., J. P. Hildebrand, and K. Muniz. "Recent Advances in Asymmetric Dihydroxylation and Aminohydroxylation." In Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis. 2nd ed. Edited by Iwao Ojima. New York, NY: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 398-428. textbook:Sundberg, Richard J. and Francis A. Carey. Advanced Organic Chemistry. 4th ed. Part B: Reaction and Synthesis. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. textbook:Johnson, R. A., and K. B. Sharpless. "Catalytic Asymmetric Epoxidation of Allylic Alcohols." In Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis. 2nd ed. Edited by Iwao Ojima. New York, NY: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 231-285. textbook:Katsuki, T. "Asymmetric Epoxidation of Unfunctionalized Olefins and Related Reactions." In Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis. 2nd ed. Edited by Iwao Ojima. New York, NY: Wiley-VCH, 2000, pp. 287-326. level:Graduate instructors:Rick Danheiser term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course focuses on general methods and strategies for the synthesis of complex organic molecules. Emphasis is on strategies for stereoselective synthesis, including stereocontrolled synthesis of complex acyclic compounds.
5.95J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
1.018J | Ecology I: The Earth System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-018j-ecology-i-the-earth-system-fall-2009 | textbook:Remmert, Hermann. "Ecology: the Basic Concept." In Ecology. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag Berlin, 1980. textbook:Morton, Oliver. "Introduction." In Eating the Sun. London, UK: Fourth Estate, 2008, pp. xi-xix. level:Undergraduate instructors:Edward DeLong,  Penny Chisholm term:Fall 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:We will cover fundamentals of ecology, considering Earth as an integrated dynamic system. Topics include coevolution of the biosphere, geosphere, atmosphere and oceans; photosynthesis and respiration; the hydrologic, carbon and nitrogen cycles. We will examine the flow of energy and materials through ecosystems; regulation of the distribution and abundance of organisms; structure and function of ecosystems, including evolution and natural selection; metabolic diversity; productivity; trophic dynamics; models of population growth, competition, mutualism and predation. This course is designated as Communication-Intensive; instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Biology is a recommended prerequisite.
1.020 | Ecology II: Engineering for Sustainability | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-020-ecology-ii-engineering-for-sustainability-spring-2008 | textbook:[MAT1] Etter, Dolores, David Kuncicky, and Holly Moore. Introduction to MATLAB 6. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:[MAT2] Etter, Dolores. Introduction to MATLAB for Engineers and Scientists. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. textbook:[MAT3] ———. Engineering Problem Solving with MATLAB. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2006. textbook:[SCow] Harte, John. Consider a Spherical Cow: A Course in Environmental Problem Solving. Mill Valley, CA: University Science Books, 1988. textbook:[CCow] ———. Consider a Cylindrical Cow: More Adventures in Environmental Problem Solving. Mill Valley, CA: University Science Books, 2001. textbook:Fay, James A., and Dan S. Golomb. Energy and the Environment. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Van Ness, H. C. Understanding Thermodynamics. New York, NY: Dover, 1983. textbook:Smith, E. Brian. Basic Chemical Thermodynamics. London, UK: Imperial College Press, 2004. textbook:[SBvW] Sonntag, Richard E., Claus Borgnakke, and Gordon J. Van Wylen. Fundamentals of Thermodynamics. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis McLaughlin term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides a review of physical, chemical, ecological, and economic principles used to examine interactions between humans and the natural environment. Mass balance concepts are applied to ecology, chemical kinetics, hydrology, and transportation; energy balance concepts are applied to building design, ecology, and climate change; and economic and life cycle concepts are applied to resource evaluation and engineering design. Numerical models are used to integrate concepts and to assess environmental impacts of human activities. Problem sets involve development of MATLAB&reg; models for particular engineering applications. Some experience with computer programming is helpful but not essential.
1.021J | Introduction to Modeling and Simulation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-021j-introduction-to-modeling-and-simulation-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Markus Buehler,  Jeffrey Grossman term:Spring 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject provides an introduction to modeling and simulation, covering continuum methods, atomistic and molecular simulation, and quantum mechanics. Hands-on training is provided in the fundamentals and applications of these methods to key engineering problems. The lectures provide exposure to areas of application based on the scientific exploitation of the power of computation. We use web based applets for simulations, thus extensive programming skills are not required.
1.081J | Chemicals in the Environment: Toxicology and Public Health (BE.104J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-104j-chemicals-in-the-environment-toxicology-and-public-health-be-104j-spring-2005 | textbook:Gordis, L. Epidemiology. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2004. textbook:Schork, M. A., and R. D. Remington. Statistics with Applications to the Biological and Health Sciences. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:James Sherley, Dr. Laura Green,  Steven Tannenbaum term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course addresses the challenges of defining a relationship between exposure to environmental chemicals and human disease. Course topics include epidemiological approaches to understanding disease causation; biostatistical methods; evaluation of human exposure to chemicals, and their internal distribution, metabolism, reactions with cellular components, and biological effects; and qualitative and quantitative health risk assessment methods used in the U.S. as bases for regulatory decision-making. Throughout the term, students consider case studies of local and national interest.
1.084J | Systems Microbiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-106j-systems-microbiology-fall-2006 | textbook:Many of the readings come from the course textbook, "Brock":  Madigan, Michael, and John Martinko. Brock Biology of Microorganisms. 11th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Schauer,  Edward DeLong term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers introductory microbiology from a systems perspective, considering microbial diversity, population dynamics, and genomics. Emphasis is placed on the delicate balance between microbes and humans, and the changes that result in the emergence of infectious diseases and antimicrobial resistance. The case study approach covers such topics as vaccines, toxins, biodefense, and infections including Legionnaire&rsquo;s disease, tuberculosis, Helicobacter pylori, and plague.
1.725J | Chemicals in the Environment: Fate and Transport | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-725j-chemicals-in-the-environment-fate-and-transport-fall-2004 | textbook:Hemond, H. F., and E. J. Fechner. Chemical Fate and Transport in the Environment. 2nd ed. Academic Press, 2000. textbook:Driscoll, F. Groundwater and Wells. New York, NY: Reynolds Guyar, 1986. textbook:Freeze, R. A., and J. A. Cherry. Groundwater. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1979. textbook:Morel, F. M. M., and J. G. Hering. Principles and Application of Aquatic Chemistry. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1993. textbook:Reid, G., and R. Wood. Ecology of Inland Waters and Estuaries. New York, NY: Van Nostrand, 1976. textbook:Schwarzenbach, R. P., P. M. Gschwend, and D. M. Imboden. Environmental Organic Chemistry. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1993. textbook:Stern, A. C., R. W. Boubel, D. B. Turner, and D. L. Fox. Fundamentals of Air Pollution. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1984. textbook:Stumm, W., and J. J. Morgan. Aquatic Chemistry. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1981. textbook:Thibodeaux, L. Chemodynamics. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1979. textbook:Wayne, R. P. Chemistry of Atmospheres. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press, 1991. textbook:Wetzel, R. G. Limnology Saunders. Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace, 1983. level:Graduate instructors:Harold Hemond,  Janet Chuang<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This core class in the Environmental M.Eng. program is for all students interested in the behavior of chemicals in the environment. The emphasis is on man-made chemicals; their movement through water, air, and soil; and their eventual fate. Physical transport, as well as chemical and biological sources and sinks, are discussed. Linkages to health effects, sources and control, and policy aspects are discussed and debated.
1.814J | Systems Perspectives on Industrial Ecology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-123j-systems-perspectives-on-industrial-ecology-spring-2006 | textbook:Colby, Michael E. "Environmental Management in Development: The Evolution of Paradigms." World Bank Discussion Paper No 80. Washington, DC: The World Bank, 1990. textbook:UN World Commission on Environment and Development. "Towards Sustainable Development." Chapter 2 in Our Common Future. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1987. textbook:Bauman, H., and A. Tillman. Hitch Hiker's Guide To LCA: An Orientation in Life Cycle Assessment Methodology and Application. Lund, Sweden: Studentlitteratur AB, 2004, chapters 1, 3, 4, and 5. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Frank Field, Dr. Jeremy Gregory,  Randolph Kirchain term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course examines quantitative techniques for life cycle analysis of the impacts of materials extraction, processing use, and recycling; and economic analysis of materials processing, products, and markets. Student teams undertake a major case study using the latest methods of analysis and computer-based models of materials process.
1.85 | Water and Wastewater Treatment Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-85-water-and-wastewater-treatment-engineering-spring-2006 | textbook:Reynolds, T. D., and P. A. Richards. Unit Operations and Processes in Environmental Engineering. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing Company, 1996. textbook:Mara, D. Domestic Wastewater Treatment in Developing Countries. London, UK: Earthscan, 2003. textbook:Viessman, W., Jr., and M. J. Hammer. Water Supply and Pollution Control. 7th ed. Pearson Education, Inc., Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2005. textbook:Droste, R. L. Theory and Practice of Water and Wastewater Treatment. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley & Sons, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Peter Shanahan term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is an overview of engineering approaches to protecting water quality with an emphasis on fundamental principals. Theory and conceptual design of systems for treating municipal wastewater and drinking water are discussed, as well as reactor theory, process kinetics, and models. Physical, chemical, and biological processes are presented, including sedimentation, filtration, biological treatment, disinfection, and sludge processing. Finally, there is discussion of engineered and natural processes for wastewater treatment.
1.89 | Environmental Microbiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-89-environmental-microbiology-fall-2004 | textbook:All readings listed below are from this text:  Madigan, M., J. Martinko, and J. Parker. Brock Biology of Microorganisms. 10th ed. New York: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Martin Polz term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This class provides a general introduction to the diverse roles of microorganisms in natural and artificial environments. It will cover topics including: cellular architecture, energetics, and growth; evolution and gene flow; population and community dynamics; water and soil microbiology; biogeochemical cycling; and microorganisms in biodeterioration and bioremediation.
21W.746 | Humanistic Perspectives on Medicine: From Ancient Greece to Modern America | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/comparative-media-studies-writing/21w-746-humanistic-perspectives-on-medicine-from-ancient-greece-to-modern-america-spring-2005 | textbook:Camus, Albert. The Plague. Translated by Robin Buss. London, UK: Allen Lane, 2001. textbook:Kleinman, Arthur. Illness Narratives. New York, NY: Basic Books, 1988. textbook:Hippocrates. Hippocratic Writings. Edited by G. E. R. Lloyd. Harmondsworth, NY: Penguin, 1978. textbook:Pence, Gregory. Classic Cases in Medical Ethics. Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill, 2003. textbook:Solomon, Andrew. The Noonday Demon. New York, NY: Scribner, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Anthony Lioi term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course is designed to explore the human side of medicine: the nature of the physician's identity and obligations; the history and philosophy of the Western medical tradition; the experience of being ill and being a patient; and the challenges of medical ethics. The writing in this class is therefore conceived as an instrument of exploration, and is an integral part of the class's activities.
12.000 | Solving Complex Problems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-000-solving-complex-problems-fall-2009 | textbook:Wilson, Elizabeth, and David Gerard, eds. Carbon Capture and Sequestration: Integrating Technology, Monitoring and Regulation. New York, NY: Wiley, 2007. textbook:Baines, S. J., and R. H., Worden, eds. Geological Storage of Carbon Dioxide (Geological Society Special Publication No. 233). London, UK: Geological Society, 2004. textbook:Marini, Luigi. Geological Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide: Thermodynamics, Kinetics, and Reaction Path Modeling (Developments in Geochemistry 11). Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier, 2007. textbook:Streck, Charlotte., et al., eds. Climate Change and Forests: Emerging Policy and Market Opportunities. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:Samuel Bowring term:Fall 2009 features:Projects (no examples) description:12.000 Solving Complex Problems is designed to provide students the opportunity to work as part of a team to propose solutions to a complex problem that requires an interdisciplinary approach. For the students of the class of 2013, 12.000 will revolve around the issues associated with what we can and must do about the steadily increasing amounts CO2 in Earth&rsquo;s atmosphere.Each year's class explores a different problem in detail through the study of complementary case histories and the development of creative solution strategies. It includes training in Web site development, effective written and oral communication, and team building. Initially developed with major financial support from the d'Arbeloff Fund for Excellence in Education, 12.000 is designed to enhance the freshman experience by helping students develop contexts for other subjects in the sciences and humanities, and by helping them to establish learning communities that include upperclassmen, faculty, MIT alumni, and professionals in science and engineering fields.
12.085 | Seminar in Environmental Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-085-seminar-in-environmental-science-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Rothman term:Spring 2008 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:Required for all Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences majors in the Environmental Science track, this course is an introduction to current research in the field. Stresses integration of central scientific concepts in environmental policy making and the chemistry, biology, and geology environmental science tracks. Revisits selected core themes for students who have already acquired a basic understanding of environmental science concepts. The topic for this term is geoengineering.
12.102 | Environmental Earth Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-102-environmental-earth-science-fall-2005 | textbook:Merritts, D., A. de Wet, and K. Menking. Environmental Geology: an Earth System Science Approach. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1998, chapters 2, 3. textbook:Merritts, D., A. de Wet, and K. Menking. Environmental Geology: an Earth System Science Approach. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1998, chapters 4, 5. textbook:Dallmeyer, R. D. Physical Geology: Laboratory Text and Manual. 6th (Book and CD) ed. Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall Hunt Pub. Co., September 1999, exercise 18. textbook:Merritts, D., A. de Wet, and K. Menking. Environmental Geology: an Earth System Science Approach. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1998, chapter 7. textbook:To review for the test: Merritts, D., A. de Wet, and K. Menking. Environmental Geology: an Earth System Science Approach. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1998, chapters 6, 8, 9, and 12. level:Undergraduate instructors:Samuel Bowring term:Fall 2005 features: description:The geologic record demonstrates that our environment has changed over a variety of time scales from seconds to billions of years. This course explores the many ways in which geologic processes control and modify the Earth's environment and serves as an introduction to Environmental Earth Science Field Course (12.120), which addresses field applications of these principles in the American Southwest.
12.103 | Strange Bedfellows: Science and Environmental Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-103-strange-bedfellows-science-and-environmental-policy-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Steve Meyer,  Kip Hodges term:Fall 2005 features: description:12.103 explores the role of scientific knowledge, discovery, method, and argument in environmental policymaking from both idealistic and realistic perspectives. The course will use case studies of science-intensive environmental controversies to study how science was used and abused in the policymaking process. Case studies include: global warming, biodiversity loss, and nuclear waste disposal siting. Subject includes intensive practice in the writing and presentation of "position statements" on environmental science issues.
12.158 | Molecular Biogeochemistry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-158-molecular-biogeochemistry-fall-2011 | textbook:McLafferty, Fred W., and František Tureček. Interpretation of Mass Spectra (Organic Chemistry Series). University Science Books, 1993. textbook:Hayes, J. M. "Fractionation of the Isotopes of Carbon and Hydrogen in Biosynthetic Processes." In Stable Isotopic Geochemistry (Reviews in Mineralogy and Geochemistry 43). Edited by J. W. Valley and D. R. Cole. Mineralogical Society of America, 2001, pp. 225–78. textbook:Killops, S., and V. Killops. An Introduction to Organic Geochemistry. Wiley-Blackwell, 2005. textbook:Gaines, S. M., G. Eglinton, and J. Rullkötter. Echoes of Life: What Fossil Molecules Reveal about Earth History. Oxford University Press, 2009. textbook:Hayes, J. M. "Fractionation of the Isotopes of Carbon and Hydrogen in Biosynthetic Processes." In Stable Isotopic Geochemistry (Reviews in Mineralogy and Geochemistry, Volume 43). Edited by J. W. Valley and D. R. Cole.  Mineralogical Society of America, 2001, pp. 225–78. textbook:Kates, M., ed. "Membrane Lipids of Archaea." In The Biochemistry of Archaea (Archaebacteria). Edited by D. J. Krushner and  Alistair T. Matheson. Elsevier Science Ltd., 1993, pp. 261–95. textbook:Volkman, J. K., and J. R. Maxwell.  "Acyclic Isoprenoids as Biological Markers." In Biological Markers and the Sedimentary Record (Methods in Geochemistry and Geophysics). Edited by R. B. Johns. Elsevier Science Ltd., 1987, pp. P1–42. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Roger Summons, Dr. Florence Schubotz, Dr. Julio Sepulveda, Dr. Paula Welander term:Fall 2011 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers all aspects of molecular biosignatures, such as their pathways of lipid biosynthesis, the distribution patterns of lipid biosynthetic pathways with regard to phylogeny and physiology, isotopic contents, occurrence in modern organisms and environments, diagenetic pathways, analytical techniques and the occurrence of molecular fossils through the geological record. Students analyze in depth the recent literature on chemical fossils. Lectures provide background on the subject matter. Basic knowledge of organic chemistry required. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments.
6.021J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
6.022J | Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-542j-quantitative-physiology-organ-transport-systems-spring-2004 | textbook:Listed below are also relevant sections from the course textbook:  Costanzo, Linda S. Physiology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jose Venegas,  Roger Mark term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course elaborates on the application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. It discusses mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. It also discusses anatomical, physiological, and pathophysiological features of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems. There is emphasis on those systems, features, and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences.
6.023J | Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-330j-fields-forces-and-flows-in-biological-systems-spring-2007 | textbook:TY & K:  Truskey, G. A., F. Yuan, and D. F. Katz. Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:H & M: Haus, H. A., and J. R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Probstein:  Probstein, R. F. Physiochemical Hydrodynamics: An Introduction. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2003. textbook:Jones:  Jones, T. B. Electromechanics of Particles. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Deen, W. "Stream Function." Section 5.9 in Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Deen, W. "Appendix A, Tables A-1 through A-4 (Vector Identity summary)." In Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Berg, H. C. "One-dimensional Random Walks." In Random Walks in Biology. 2nd ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jongyoon Han,  Scott Manalis term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces the basic driving forces for electric current, fluid flow, and mass transport, plus their application to a variety of biological systems. Basic mathematical and engineering tools will be introduced, in the context of biology and physiology. Various electrokinetic phenomena are also considered as an example of coupled nature of chemical-electro-mechanical driving forces. Applications include transport in biological tissues and across membranes, manipulation of cells and biomolecules, and microfluidics.
6.025J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
6.07J | Projects in Microscale Engineering for the Life Sciences | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-410j-projects-in-microscale-engineering-for-the-life-sciences-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman,  Martha Gray,  Alexander Aranyosi term:Spring 2007 features:Image galleries, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is a project-based introduction to manipulating and characterizing cells and biological molecules using microfabricated tools. It is designed for first year undergraduate students. In the first half of the term, students perform laboratory exercises designed to introduce (1) the design, manufacture, and use of microfluidic channels, (2) techniques for sorting and manipulating cells and biomolecules, and (3) making quantitative measurements using optical detection and fluorescent labeling. In the second half of the term, students work in small groups to design and test a microfluidic device to solve a real-world problem of their choosing. Includes exercises in written and oral communication and team building.
6.152J | Micro/Nano Processing Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-152j-micro-nano-processing-technology-fall-2005 | textbook:Plummer, James, Michael Deal, and Peter Griffin. Silicon VLSI Technology: Fundamentals, Practice, and Modeling. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. textbook:Campbell, Stephen. The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Wolf, Stanley, and Richard Tauber. Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era. Vol. 1. Sunset Beach, CA: Lattice Press, 1986. textbook:Sze, Simon. VLSI Technology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988. textbook:Ghandi, Sorab. VLSI Fabrication Principles: Silicon and Gallium Arsenide. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1994. textbook:Pierret, Robert, and Gerold Neudeck. Modular Series on Solid State Devices. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1982. textbook:Grove, A. S. Physics and Technology of Semiconductor Devices. New York, NY: Wiley, 1967. textbook:Colclaser, R. A. Microelectronics Processing and Device Design. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. textbook:Vossen, John, and Werner Kern. Thin Film Processes. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1978. textbook:Mayer, James, and Sylvanus Lau. Electronic Materials Science: For Integrated Circuits in Si and GaAs. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Murarka, Shyam, and Martin Peckerar. Electronic Materials: Science and Technology. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Ohring, Milton. The Materials Science of Thin Films. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2001. textbook:Senturia, Stephen. Microsystem Design. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. textbook:Madou, Marc. Fundamentals of Microfabrication: The Science of Miniaturization. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2002. textbook:Kovacs, Gregory. Micromachined Transducers Sourcebook. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1998. textbook:May, G. S., and S. Sze. Fundamentals of Semiconductor Fabrication. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2003. textbook:Smith, D. L. Thin Film Deposition: Principles and Practice. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1995. textbook:Perleman, Leslie, and Edward Barrett. The Mayfield Handbook of Technical & Scientific Writing. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1997. level:Undergraduate instructors:Martin Schmidt,  Susan Ruff, Dr. Robert O’Handley term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course introduces the theory and technology of micro/nano fabrication. Lectures and laboratory sessions focus on basic processing techniques such as diffusion, oxidation, photolithography, chemical vapor deposition, and more. Through team lab assignments, students are expected to gain an understanding of these processing techniques, and how they are applied in concert to device fabrication. Students enrolled in this course have a unique opportunity to fashion and test micro/nano-devices, using modern techniques and technology.
6.804J | Computational Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-66j-computational-cognitive-science-fall-2004 | textbook:AIMA is short for the recommended course text:  Russell, Stuart, J., and Peter Norvig. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall/Pearson Education, 2003. textbook:Goodman, Nelson. "The New Riddle of Induction." In Fact, Fiction, and Forecast. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1983. textbook:Fodor, Chomsky. "On the Impossibility of Acquiring more Powerful Structures," and "The Inductivist Fallacy (including discussion)." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984, pp. 142-149. textbook:———. "The Inductivist Fallacy." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984, pp. 259-269, including discussion. textbook:Bruner, Jerome S., Jacqueline J. Goodnow, and George Austin. A Study in Thinking. Somerset, NJ: Transaction Publishers, 1986. textbook:Mitchell, Thomas M. Machine Learning. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997, chapter 2. textbook:Kearns, Michael J., and Umesh V. Vasirani. An Introduction to Computational Learning Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1994, pp. 1-7. textbook:Winston, P. H., ed. "Learning Structural Descriptions from Examples." In The Psychology of Computer Vision. New York, NY: McGaw-Hill, 1975, pp. 157-209. textbook:Chomsky, Noam. Syntactic Structures. Berlin, Germany: Walter De Gruyter, Inc., 1976, pp. 11-48. textbook:Markman, Arthur. Knowledge Representation. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1998, pp. 118-146, and 188-216. textbook:1.  Pinker, S. "Why the Child Holded the Baby Rabbits: A Case Study in Language Acquisition." In An Invitation to Cognitive Science: Language. Edited by L. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. 2nd ed. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:2.  Rumelhart, D. E., and J. L. McClelland, eds. "On Learning the Past Tenses of English Verbs." Chapter 18 in Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Rumelhart, D. E., and J. L. McClelland, eds. "Schemata and Sequential Thought Processes in PDP Models." Chapter 14 in Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Sivia. Bayesian Data Analysis. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996, pp. 1-23. textbook:McClelland, J. L., D. E. Rumelhart, andG. Hinton. "The Appeal of Parallel Distributed Processing." In Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Edited by D. E. Rumelhart, and J. L. McClelland. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Gelman, Carlin, Stern, and Rubin. "Hierarchical Models." Chapter 5 in Bayesian Data Analysis. 2nd ed. London, UK: Chapman & Hall, 1995, pp. 117-131. textbook:Review:  Goodman, Nelson. "The New Riddle of Induction." In Fact, Fiction, and Forecast. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1983. textbook:Mitchell, Thomas M. "Bayesian Learning." Chapter 6 in Machine Learning. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997, sections 6.1-6.3. textbook:Tenenbaum, J. B. "Rules and Similarity in Concept Learning." In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 12. Edited by S. Solla, T. Leen, and K. Muller. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, 59-65. textbook:If necessary for background:  Bishop, C. M. "Bayesian Classification." Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Gelman, Susan A. The Essential Child. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, March 1, 2003, chapter 1, and 3, pp. 3-18, and 60-88. textbook:Pearl, Judea. Causality: Models, Reasoning, and Inference. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 2000, chapter 1. textbook:Gregory F. Cooper. "An Overview of the Representation and Discovery of Causal Relationships using Bayesian Networks." In Computation, Causation, and Discovery. Edited by Clark Glymour and Gregory F. Cooper. MIT Press, June 1999, pp. 3-62. textbook:Atran, Scott. "Classifying Nature Across Cultures." In Thinking: An Invitation to Cognitive Science. Edited by Edward E. Smith, Daniel N. Osherson, et. al. 2nd ed. Vol. 3. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 131-174. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Joshua Tenenbaum term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course is an introduction to computational theories of human cognition. Drawing on formal models from classic and contemporary artificial intelligence, students will explore fundamental issues in human knowledge representation, inductive learning and reasoning. What are the forms that our knowledge of the world takes? What are the inductive principles that allow us to acquire new knowledge from the interaction of prior knowledge with observed data? What kinds of data must be available to human learners, and what kinds of innate knowledge (if any) must they have?
6.524J | Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics (BE.410J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-410j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-be-410j-spring-2003 | textbook:Daune, Michel. Chapter 2 in Molecular Biophysics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Dill, K. A., and S. Bromberg. Chapters 6, 8 and 10 in Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Boal, David H. Chapter 2 in Mechanics of the Cell. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Howard, Johnathon. Chapters 5 and 10 in Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Ward, J. P. Solid Mechanics. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Lodish, H., et. al. Molecular Cell Biology. 3rd. ed. New York, NY: Scientific American Books/W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Malvern, Lawrence E. Chapter 6 in Introduction to the Mechanics of a Continuous Medium. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1969, pp. 278-282. textbook:Fung, Y. C. Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:Ferry, J. D. "The Nature of Viscoelastic Behavior." Chapter 1 in Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. level:Graduate instructors:Roger D. Kamm,  Patrick Doyle,  Maxine Jonas<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales. Topics include: structure of tissues and the molecular basis for macroscopic properties; chemical and electrical effects on mechanical behavior; cell mechanics, motility and adhesion; biomembranes; biomolecular mechanics and molecular motors. Experimental methods for probing structures at the tissue, cellular, and molecular levels will also be investigated.This course was originally co-developed by Professors Alan Grodzinsky, Roger Kamm, and L. Mahadevan.
6.541J | Speech Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-541j-speech-communication-spring-2004 | textbook:The readings listed below for the course's lecture (LE) sessions are from the required course textbook: Stevens, Kenneth. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Fant, G. Acoustic Theory of Speech Production. The Hague: Mouton, 1970. textbook:Flanagan, J. L. Speech Analysis, Synthesis and Perception. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1972. textbook:Halle, M., and K. N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire: Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Jakobson, R., G. Fant, and M. Halle. Preliminaries to Speech Analysis. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 1963. textbook:Ladefoged, P., and I. Maddieson. The Sounds of the World's Languages. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Maddieson, I. Patterns of Sounds. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984. textbook:Minifie, F., ed. Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders. San Diego: Singular, 1994. textbook:O'Shaughnessy, D. Speech Communication: Human and Machine. New York, NY: IEEE Press, 1999. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and B. -H. Juang. Fundamentals of Speech Recognition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. textbook:Atal, B. S., J. L. Miller, and R. D. Kent, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Processing. Woodbury NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Perception. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Production. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:Pickett, J. M. The Acoustics of Speech Communication: Fundamentals, Speech Perception Theory, and Technology. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn & Bacon: 1998. textbook:Hardcastle, W. J., and J. Laver, eds. The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, Ltd., 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Kenneth Stevens term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:6.541J surveys the structural properties of natural languages, with special emphasis on the sound pattern. Topics covered include: representation of the lexicon; physiology of speech production; articulatory phonetics; acoustical theory of speech production; acoustical and articulatory descriptions of phonetic features and of prosodic aspects of speech; perception of speech; models of lexical access and of speech production and planning; and applications to recognition and generation of speech by machine, and to the study of speech disorders.
6.542J | Laboratory on the Physiology, Acoustics, and Perception of Speech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-542j-laboratory-on-the-physiology-acoustics-and-perception-of-speech-fall-2005 | textbook:This section shows the set of readings for each lab, which are to be read before class. The readings are from the required textbook: Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Joseph S. Perkell,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Fall 2005 features:Projects (no examples) description:The course focuses on experimental investigations of speech processes. Topics include: measurement of articulatory movements, measurements of pressures and airflows in speech production, computer-aided waveform analysis and spectral analysis of speech, synthesis of speech, perception and discrimination of speechlike sounds, speech prosody, models for speech recognition, speech disorders, and other topics.Two 1-hour lectures per weekTwo labs per weekBrief lab reportsTerm project, with short term paperNo exams
6.543J | The Lexicon and Its Features | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-941j-the-lexicon-and-its-features-spring-2007 | textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 1-2. textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 3-6. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Underspecification and Markedness." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Closure, Release, and Nasal Conditions." In Phonetics and Phonology 5: Nasals, Nasalization, and the Velum. Edited by Marie Huffman and Rena Krakow. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1993. textbook:———. "Paradigm Uniformity and the Phonetics-Phonology Boundary." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology V: Acquisition and the Lexicon. Edited by Michael B. Broe and Janet B. Pierrehumbert. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Wright, R. "Factors of Lexical Competition in Vowel Articulation." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology VI. Edited by John Local, Richard Ogden, and Rosalind Temple. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Remez, Robert. "A Guide to Research on the Perception of Speech." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Kenstowicz, Michael, and Charles Kisseberth. "Phonological Sketches." Chapter 4 in Generative Phonology: Description and Theory. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Articulatory-Acoustic-Auditory Relationships." Chapter 15 in The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by William J. Hardcastle and John Laver. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 1997/1999. textbook:Halle, M., and Kenneth N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK: Palgrave Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "The Dispersion Theory of Contrast." Chapter 2 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clements, G. N., and Elizabeth V. Hume. "The Internal Organization of Speech Sounds." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996, pp. 245-306. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "Auditory Features in Phonology." Chapter 1 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clemens, G. N. "Representational Economy in Constraint-based Phonology." In Distinctive Feature Theory. Edited by T. Alan Hall. New York, NY: Mouton de Gruyter, 2001. textbook:Mielke, Jeff. The Emergence of Distinctive Features. Ohio State University dissertation, 2004. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Peperkamp, Sharon, Katrin Skoruppa, and emmanual Dupoux. "The Role of Phonetic Naturalness in Phonological Rule Acquisition." Proceedings of the 30th Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development. Vol. 1. Edited by David Bamman, Tatiana Magnitskaia, and Colleen Zaller. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press, 2006, pp. 464-475. textbook:Luce, Paul A., David B. Pisoni, and Steven D. Goldinger. "Similarity Neighborhoods of Spoken Words." Cognitive Models of Speech Processing: Psycholinguistic and Computational Perspectives. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:Johnson, Keith. "Speaker Normalization in Speech Perception." In The Handbook of Speech Perception. Edited by David Pisoni and Robert Remez. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2005, pp. 363-389. textbook:Fitzpatrick, J., and L. R. Wheeldon. "Phonology and Phonetics in Psycholinguistic Models of Speech Perception." In Phonological Knowledge: Conceptual and Empirical Knowledge. Edited by Noel Burton-Roberts, Philip Carr, and Gerard Dougherty. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Pierrehumbert, Janet. "Exemplar Dynamics: Word Frequency, Lenition, and Contrast." In Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Edited by Joan L. Bybee and Paul Hopper. Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2001. textbook:Segui, Juan, and Ludovic Ferrand. "The Role of the Syllable in Speech Perception and Production." In Phonetics, Phonology, and Cognition. Edited by Jaques Durand and Bernard Laks. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Massaro, Dominic W. "Psychological Aspects of Speech Perception: Implications for Research and Theory." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Repp, Bruno H., and Alvin M. Liberman. "Phonetic Category Boundaries are Flexible." In Categorical Perception: The Groundwork of Cognition. Edited by S. Harnad. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. David Gow,  Donca Steriade,  Edward Flemming,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course provides an overview of the distinctive features which distinguish sound categories of languages of the world. Theories which relate these categories to their acoustic and articulatory correlates, both universally and in particular languages, are covered. Models of word recognition by listeners, features, and phonological structure are also discussed. In addition, the course offers a variety of perspectives on these issues, drawn from Electrical Engineering, Linguistics and Cognitive Science.
6.551J | Acoustics of Speech and Hearing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-551j-acoustics-of-speech-and-hearing-fall-2004 | textbook:Denes, P. B., and E. N. Pinson. The Speech Chain: The physics and biology of spoken speech. 2nd ed. New York: W. H. Freeman, 1993. textbook:Other more detailed and engineering oriented texts will be useful from time: Kinsler, Frey, Coppens, and Saunders. Fundamentals of Acoustics. San Diego: Academic Press, 1982. textbook:Fletcher, Neville. Acoustic Systems in Biology. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1992. textbook:Yost, William. Fundamentals of Hearing Science. 3rd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1994. level:Graduate instructors:Christopher Shera,  John Rosowski,  Kenneth Stevens,  Louis Braida term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The Acoustics of Speech and Hearing is an H-Level graduate course that reviews the physical processes involved in the production, propagation and reception of human speech. Particular attention is paid to how the acoustics and mechanics of the speech and auditory system define what sounds we are capable of producing and what sounds we can sense. Areas of discussion include:  the acoustic cues used in determining the direction of a sound source, the acoustic and mechanical mechanisms involved in speech production and the acoustic and mechanical mechanism used to transduce and analyze sounds in the ear. 
6.555J | Biomedical Signal and Image Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-582j-biomedical-signal-and-image-processing-spring-2007 | textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and R. W. Schafer, with J. R. Buck. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1999. textbook:Papoulis, A., and S. U. Pillai. Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2001. textbook:Siebert, W. M. Circuits, Signals and Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1985. textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and A. S. Willsky, with H. Nawab. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River: Prentice-Hall, 1996. textbook:Karu, Z. Z. Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple. Huntsville, AL: ZiZi Press, 1995. textbook:Duda, R., and P. Hart. Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1973. textbook:Duda, R., P. Hart, and D. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2000. textbook:Bishop, C. Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996. textbook:Nabney, I. Netlab: Algorithms for Pattern Recognition. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Clifford, G., F. Azuajae, and P. McSharry. Advanced Methods and Tools for ECG Data Analysis. Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2006. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and R. W. Schafer. Digital Processing of Speech Signals. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1978. textbook:Quatieri, T. F. Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing: Principles and Practice. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2001. textbook:Lim, J. S. Two-Dimensional Signal and Image Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. textbook:Epstein, C. L. Mathematics of Medical Imaging. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Webb, S. The Physics of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1988. textbook:Westbrook, C., C. Kaut Roth, and T. Talbot. MRI in Practice. 3rd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, Inc., 2005. textbook:Macovski, A. Medical Imaging Systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1983. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Gari Clifford, Dr. John Fisher, Dr. Julie Greenberg, Dr. William Wells term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course presents the fundamentals of digital signal processing with particular emphasis on problems in biomedical research and clinical medicine. It covers principles and algorithms for processing both deterministic and random signals. Topics include data acquisition, imaging, filtering, coding, feature extraction, and modeling. The focus of the course is a series of labs that provide practical experience in processing physiological data, with examples from cardiology, speech processing, and medical imaging. The labs are done in MATLAB&reg; during weekly lab sessions that take place in an electronic classroom. Lectures cover signal processing topics relevant to the lab exercises, as well as background on the biological signals processed in the labs.
6.581J | Foundations of Algorithms and Computational Techniques in Systems Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-482j-foundations-of-algorithms-and-computational-techniques-in-systems-biology-spring-2006 | textbook:Schlick, T. Molecular Modeling and Simulation: An Interdisciplinary Guide. New York, NY: Springer, 2002. textbook:Allen, M. P., and D. J. Tildesley. Computer Simulation of Liquids. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1989. textbook:Trefethen, L. N., and D. Bau, III. Numerical Linear Algebra. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1997. textbook:Branden, C.-I., and J. Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Routledge, 1999. textbook:Bertero, M., and P. Boccacci. Introduction to Inverse Problems in Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Tidor,  Jacob White term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This subject describes and illustrates computational approaches to solving problems in systems biology. A series of case-studies will be explored that demonstrate how an effective match between the statement of a biological problem and the selection of an appropriate algorithm or computational technique can lead to fundamental advances. The subject will cover several discrete and numerical algorithms used in simulation, feature extraction, and optimization for molecular, network, and systems models in biology.
6.863J | Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-863j-natural-language-and-the-computer-representation-of-knowledge-spring-2003 | textbook:The page numbers below refer to readings in the course textbook: Jurafsky, and Martin. Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Robert Berwick term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:6.863 is a laboratory-oriented course on the theory and practice of building computer systems for human language processing, with an emphasis on the linguistic, cognitive, and engineering foundations for understanding their design.
6.872 | Biomedical Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-950j-biomedical-computing-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Peter Szolovits,  Gil Alterovitz term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Analyzes computational needs of clinical medicine reviews systems and approaches that have been used to support those needs, and the relationship between clinical data and gene and protein measurements. Topics: the nature of clinical data; architecture and design of healthcare information systems; privacy and security issues; medical expertsystems; introduction to bioinformatics. Case studies and guest lectures describe contemporary systems and research projects. Term project using large clinical and genomic data sets integrates classroom topics.
6.872J | Medical Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-950j-medical-computing-spring-2003 | textbook:The following text is required for the course and is referenced in the calendar of readings listed in the table below.  Shortliffe, E. H., L. E. Perreault, G. Wiederhold, and L. M. Fagan. Medical Informatics: Computer Applications in Health Care and Biomedicine . 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane,  Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Peter Szolovits term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:The focus of the course is on medical science and practice in the age of automation and the genome, both present and future. It ncludes an analysis of the computational needs of clinical medicine, a review systems and approaches that have been used to support those needs, and an examination of new technologies.
6.873J | Medical Decision Support		 (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-951j-medical-decision-support-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Staal Vinterbo term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course presents the main concepts of decision analysis, artificial intelligence, and predictive model construction and evaluation in the specific context of medical applications. The advantages and disadvantages of using these methods in real-world systems&nbsp;are emphasized, while students gain hands-on experience with application specific methods. The technical focus of the course includes decision analysis, knowledge-based systems (qualitative and quantitative), learning systems (including logistic regression, classification trees, neural networks), and techniques to evaluate the performance of such systems.
6.873J | Medical Decision Support		 (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-951j-medical-decision-support-spring-2003 | textbook:Hastie, T., R. Tibshirani, and J. H. Friedman. The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction. (Springer Series in Statistics.) New York, NY: Springer Verlag, July 30, 2003. textbook:Duda, Richard O., Peter E. Hart, and David G. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, October 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane,  Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Peter Szolovits,  Staal Vinterbo term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course presents the main concepts of decision analysis, artificial intelligence and predictive model construction and evaluation in the specific context of medical applications. It emphasizes the advantages and disadvantages of using these methods in real-world systems and provides hands-on experience. Its technical focus is on decision support, knowledge-based systems (qualitative and quantitative), learning systems (including logistic regression, classification trees, neural networks, rough sets), and techniques to evaluate the performance of such systems. It reviews computer-based diagnosis, planning and monitoring of therapeutic interventions. It also discusses implemented medical applications and the software tools used in their construction. Students produce a final project using the machine learning methods learned in the course, based on actual clinical data.LecturersProf. Stephan DreiseitlProf. Ju Jan KimProf. Bill LongProf. Marco RamoniProf. Fred ResnicProf. David Wypij
6.874J | Computational Functional Genomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-90j-computational-functional-genomics-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:David Gifford,  Tommi Jaakkola term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:The course focuses on casting contemporary problems in systems biology and functional genomics in computational terms and providing appropriate tools and methods to solve them. Topics include genome structure and function, transcriptional regulation, and stem cell biology in particular; measurement technologies such as microarrays (expression, protein-DNA interactions, chromatin structure); statistical data analysis, predictive and causal inference, and experiment design. The emphasis is on coupling problem structures (biological questions) with appropriate computational approaches.
6.877J | Computational Evolutionary Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-877j-computational-evolutionary-biology-fall-2005 | textbook:Rice, Sean. Evolutionary Theory: Conceptual and Mathematical Foundations. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer, 2004. textbook:Hall, Barry. Phylogenetic Trees Made Easy. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Robert Berwick term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:Why has it been easier to develop a vaccine to eliminate polio than to control influenza or AIDS? Has there been natural selection for a 'language gene'? Why are there no animals with wheels? When does 'maximizing fitness' lead to evolutionary extinction? How are sex and parasites related? Why don't snakes eat grass? Why don't we have eyes in the back of our heads? How does modern genomics illustrate and challenge the field? This course analyzes evolution from a computational, modeling, and engineering perspective. The course has extensive hands-on laboratory exercises in model-building and analyzing evolutionary data.
6.982J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
ESD.053J | Chemicals in the Environment: Toxicology and Public Health (BE.104J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-104j-chemicals-in-the-environment-toxicology-and-public-health-be-104j-spring-2005 | textbook:Gordis, L. Epidemiology. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2004. textbook:Schork, M. A., and R. D. Remington. Statistics with Applications to the Biological and Health Sciences. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:James Sherley, Dr. Laura Green,  Steven Tannenbaum term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course addresses the challenges of defining a relationship between exposure to environmental chemicals and human disease. Course topics include epidemiological approaches to understanding disease causation; biostatistical methods; evaluation of human exposure to chemicals, and their internal distribution, metabolism, reactions with cellular components, and biological effects; and qualitative and quantitative health risk assessment methods used in the U.S. as bases for regulatory decision-making. Throughout the term, students consider case studies of local and national interest.
ESD.123J | Systems Perspectives on Industrial Ecology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-123j-systems-perspectives-on-industrial-ecology-spring-2006 | textbook:Colby, Michael E. "Environmental Management in Development: The Evolution of Paradigms." World Bank Discussion Paper No 80. Washington, DC: The World Bank, 1990. textbook:UN World Commission on Environment and Development. "Towards Sustainable Development." Chapter 2 in Our Common Future. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1987. textbook:Bauman, H., and A. Tillman. Hitch Hiker's Guide To LCA: An Orientation in Life Cycle Assessment Methodology and Application. Lund, Sweden: Studentlitteratur AB, 2004, chapters 1, 3, 4, and 5. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Frank Field, Dr. Jeremy Gregory,  Randolph Kirchain term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course examines quantitative techniques for life cycle analysis of the impacts of materials extraction, processing use, and recycling; and economic analysis of materials processing, products, and markets. Student teams undertake a major case study using the latest methods of analysis and computer-based models of materials process.
ESD.65J | Aerospace Biomedical and Life Support Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-423j-aerospace-biomedical-and-life-support-engineering-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dava Newman term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course introduces students to a quantitative approach to studying the problems of physiological adaptation in altered environments, especially microgravity and partial gravity environments. The course curriculum starts with an Introduction and Selected Topics, which provides background information on the physiological problems associated with human space flight, as well as reviewing terminology and key engineering concepts. Then curriculum modules on Bone Mechanics, Muscle Mechanics, Musculoskeletal Dynamics and Control, and the Cardiovascular System are presented. These modules start out with qualitative and biological information regarding the system and its adaptation, and progresses to a quantitative endpoint in which engineering methods are used to analyze specific problems and countermeasures. Additional course curriculum focuses on interdisciplinary topics, suggestions include extravehicular activity and life support. The final module consists of student term project work.
HST.410J | Projects in Microscale Engineering for the Life Sciences | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-410j-projects-in-microscale-engineering-for-the-life-sciences-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman,  Martha Gray,  Alexander Aranyosi term:Spring 2007 features:Image galleries, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is a project-based introduction to manipulating and characterizing cells and biological molecules using microfabricated tools. It is designed for first year undergraduate students. In the first half of the term, students perform laboratory exercises designed to introduce (1) the design, manufacture, and use of microfluidic channels, (2) techniques for sorting and manipulating cells and biomolecules, and (3) making quantitative measurements using optical detection and fluorescent labeling. In the second half of the term, students work in small groups to design and test a microfluidic device to solve a real-world problem of their choosing. Includes exercises in written and oral communication and team building.
HST.422J | A Clinical Approach to the Human Brain | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-22j-a-clinical-approach-to-the-human-brain-fall-2006 | textbook:Purves, Dale, et al. Neuroscience. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. textbook:Kandell, Eric, James Schwartz, and Thomas Jessell. Principles of Neural Science. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2000. textbook:Livingstone, Margaret. Vision and Art: The Biology of Seeing. New York, NY: Abrams, 2002. textbook:Matthews, Paul, and Jeffrey McQuain. The Bard on the Brain: Understanding the Mind through the Art of Shakespeare and the Science of Brain Imaging. New York, NY: Dana Press, 2003. textbook:Zeki, Semir. Inner Vision: An Exploration of Art and the Brain. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Sacks, Oliver. The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat: And Other Clinical Tales. New York, NY: Simon and Schuster, 1998. textbook:Zeman, Adam. Consciousness: A User's Guide. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2004. textbook:Damasio, Antonio. Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain. Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace, 2003. textbook:Curtiss, Susan. Genie: A Psycholinguistic Study of a Modern-day "Wild Child". New York, NY: Academic Press, 1977. textbook:Damasio, Antonio. Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain. Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace, 2003. textbook:Damasio, Antonio. Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain. Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Thomas Byrne term:Fall 2006 features: description:This course is designed to provide an understanding of how the human brain works in health and disease, and is intended for both the Brain and Cognitive Sciences major and the non-Brain and Cognitive Sciences major. Knowledge of how the human brain works is important for all citizens, and the lessons to be learned have enormous implications for public policy makers and educators. The course will cover the regional anatomy of the brain and provide an introduction to the cellular function of neurons, synapses and neurotransmitters. Commonly used drugs that alter brain function can be understood through a knowledge of neurotransmitters. Along similar lines, common diseases that illustrate normal brain function will be discussed. Experimental animal studies that reveal how the brain works will be reviewed.Throughout the seminar we will discuss clinical cases from Dr. Byrne's experience that illustrate brain function; in addition, articles from the scientific literature will be discussed in each class.
HST.541J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
HST.542J | Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-542j-quantitative-physiology-organ-transport-systems-spring-2004 | textbook:Listed below are also relevant sections from the course textbook:  Costanzo, Linda S. Physiology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jose Venegas,  Roger Mark term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course elaborates on the application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. It discusses mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. It also discusses anatomical, physiological, and pathophysiological features of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems. There is emphasis on those systems, features, and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences.
HST.021 | Musculoskeletal Pathophysiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-021-musculoskeletal-pathophysiology-january-iap-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Dwight R. Robinson<br/>(Course Director) term:January IAP 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the growth, development and structure of normal bone and joints, the biomechanics of bone connective tissues, and their response to stress, calcium and phosphate homeostasis. Additional topics include regulation by parathyroid hormone and vitamin D, the pathogenesis of metabolic bone diseases and diseases of connective tissues, joints and muscle with consideration of possible mechanisms and underlying metabolic derangements.LecturersDr. Paul Joseph AndersonDr. Robert Horatio Brown, Jr.Dr. Marie DemayDr. Stephen Martin KraneDr. Young-Jo KimDr. Henry Jay MankinDr. Bjorn Reino OlsenDr. John Thomas PottsDr. Alan Lewis SchillerDr. Brian Dale Snyder&nbsp;
HST.035 | Principle and Practice of Human Pathology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-035-principle-and-practice-of-human-pathology-spring-2003 | textbook:Cotran, et al. "Tumors of Colon and Rectum." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 827-835. textbook:Cotran, et al. "Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia and Cancer." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 1049-1053. textbook:Cotran, et al. "Lymphoid Neoplasms." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 651-658. textbook:———. "AML." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 675-678. textbook:Cotran, et al. "Sickle Cell Disease." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 611-615. textbook:Cotran, et al. "Alzheimer Disease." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 1329-1333. textbook:———. "Parkinsonism." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 1333-1334. textbook:Cotran, et al. "CNS Tumors." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 1343-1348. textbook:Cotran, et al. "General Introduction." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 1272-1275. textbook:———. "Diseases of Skeletal Muscle." Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W. B. Saunders, 1999, pp. 1280-1289. level:Graduate instructors:Gary Tearney<br/>(Course Director),  Kamran Badizadegan<br/>(Course Director) term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course provides a comprehensive overview of human pathology with emphasis on mechanisms of disease and diagnostic medicine. Topics include:Cellular Mechanisms of DiseaseMolecular PathologyPathology of Major Organ SystemsReview of Diagnostic Tools from Traditional Surgical Pathology to Diagnostic SpectroscopyFunctional and Molecular ImagingMolecular DiagnosticsIn addition to lectures, one of the two weekly sessions includes a 2-3 hour laboratory component. Periodically, time will also be devoted to minicases.LecturersProf. Jon AsterProf. Frederick BieberProf. Carlo BrugnaraProf. Robert B. ColvinProf. Christopher CrumProf. Douglas DockeryProf. Mel FeanyProf. Michael FeldProf. Jonathan FletcherProf. Michael GimbroneProf. Todd GolubProf. Frank B. HuProf. Donald IngberProf. Hart LidovProf. David LouisProf. Richard MitchellProf. Fiona MurrayProf. Mark RedstonProf. Helmut RennkeProf. Bruce RosenProf. Frederick SchoenProf. Christine Seidman
HST.071 | Human Reproductive Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-071-human-reproductive-biology-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Henry Klapholz term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:This course is designed to give the student a clear understanding of the pathophysiology of the menstrual cycle, fertilization, implantation, ovum growth development, differentiation and associated abnormalities. Disorders of fetal development including the principles of teratology and the mechanism of normal and abnormal parturition will be covered as well as the pathophysiology of the breast and disorders of lactation. Fetal asphyxia and its consequences will be reviewed with emphasis on the technology currently available for its detection. In addition the conclusion of the reproductive cycle, menopause, and the use of hormonal replacement will be covered.
HST.121 | Gastroenterology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-121-gastroenterology-fall-2005 | textbook:Cotran, Ramzi S., Vinay Kumar, Tucker Collins, and Stanley L. Robbins. "The Gastrointestinal Tract," "Liver and the Biliary Tract," and "The Pancreas." Chapters 18, 19, and 20 in Robbins Pathological Basis of Diseases. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co., 1999. textbook:Heuman, Douglas M., A. Scott Mills, and Hunter H. McGuire. Gastroenterology, Saunders Text and Review Series. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co., 1997. textbook:Chandrasoma, P. Gastrointestinal Pathology. Stamford, CT: Appleton & Lange, 1999. textbook:Fawcett, D. W., W. Bloom, et al. A Textbook of Histology. New York, NY: Chapman & Hall, 1997. textbook:Fenoglio-Preiser, C. M. Gastrointestinal Pathology: An Atlas and Text. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott-Raven Publishers, 1999. textbook:Ming, S.-C., and H. Goldman. Pathology of the Gastrointestinal Tract. Baltimore, MD: Williams & Wilkins, 1998. textbook:MacSween, R. N. M. Pathology of the Liver. Edinburgh, Scotland; New York, NY: Churchill Livingstone, 2002. textbook:Gore, R. M., and M. S. Levine. Textbook of Gastrointestinal Radiography. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co., 2000. textbook:Schiff, E. R., M. F. Sorrell, et al. Schiff's Diseases of the Liver. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott-Raven Publishers, 1999. textbook:Sherlock, S., and J. Dooley. Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System. Oxford, UK; Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, 2002. textbook:Feldman, M., B. Scharschmidt, et al. Sleisenger and Fordtran's Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease: Pathophysiology, Diagnosis, Management. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co., 2002. textbook:Tahara, E. Molecular Pathology of Gastroenterological Cancer: Application to Clinical Practice. Tokyo, Japan; New York, NY: Springer, 1997. textbook:Zakim, D., and Boyer T. Hepatology: A Textbook of Liver Disease. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Co., 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Daniel C. Chung, Dr. Jonathan N. Glickman, Dr. Martin C. Carey, Dr. Raymond T. Chung term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:The most recent knowledge of the anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, biophysics, and bioengineering of the gastrointestinal tract and the associated pancreatic, liver and biliary tract systems is presented and discussed. Gross and microscopic pathology and the clinical aspects of important gastroenterological diseases are then presented, with emphasis on integrating the molecular, cellular and pathophysiological aspects of the disease processes to their related symptoms and signs.
HST.131 | Introduction to Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-131-introduction-to-neuroscience-fall-2005 | textbook:Kandel, Eric R., James H. Schwartz, and Thomas M. Jessell. Principles of Neural Science. 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, Health Professions Division, 2000. textbook:Schwarz, Thomas L. "Release of Neurotransmitters." Chapter 8 in Fundamental Neuroscience, edited by Larry R. Squire, Floyd E. Bloom, Susan K. McConnell, James L. Roberts, Nicholas C. Spitzer, and Michael J. Zigmond. 2nd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. David Corey term:Fall 2005 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The course will span modern neuroscience from molecular neurobiology to perception and cognition, including the following major topics: anatomy and development of the brain; cell biology of neurons and glia; ion channels and electrical signaling; synaptic transmission, integration, and chemical systems of the brain; sensory systems, from transduction to perception; motor systems; and higher brain functions dealing with memory, language, and affective disorders.
HST.151 | Principles of Pharmacology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-151-principles-of-pharmacology-spring-2005 | textbook:Golan, D., et. al., eds. Principles of Pharmacology: The Pathophysiologic Basis of Drug Therapy. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, 2004. textbook:Hardman, J. G., et. al., eds. Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics. 10th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2001. textbook:Katzung, B., et. al., eds. Basic and Clinical Pharmacology. 9th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Carl Rosow, Dr. David Standaert,  Gary Strichartz term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:The object of the course is to teach students an approach to the study of pharmacologic agents. It is not intended to be a review of the pharmacopoeia. The focus is on the basic principles of biophysics, biochemistry and physiology, as related to the mechanisms of drug action, biodistribution and metabolism. The course consists of lectures and student-led case discussions. Topics covered include: mechanisms of drug action, dose-response relations, pharmacokinetics, drug delivery systems, drug metabolism, toxicity of pharmacological agents, drug interaction and substance abuse. Selected agents and classes of agents are examined in detail.LecturersProf. Keith BakerDr. Mark DershwitzHarold DemonacoDr. Daniel KohaneDr. Donald KufeProf. Robert LangerDr. Robert LeesDr. Robert RubinDr. Jeremy RuskinProf. Thomas SpitzerProf. Carol WalshDr. Michael WeinblattDr. Warren Zapol
HST.161 | Molecular Biology and Genetics in Modern Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-161-molecular-biology-and-genetics-in-modern-medicine-fall-2007 | level:Graduate instructors:David Housman,  Anne Giersch term:Fall 2007 features: description:This course provides a foundation for understanding the relationship between molecular biology, developmental biology, genetics, genomics, bioinformatics, and medicine. It develops explicit connections between basic research, medical understanding, and the perspective of patients. Principles of human genetics are reviewed. We translate clinical understanding into analysis at the level of the gene, chromosome and molecule; we cover the concepts and techniques of molecular biology and genomics, and the strategies and methods of genetic analysis, including an introduction to bioinformatics. Material in the course extends beyond basic principles to current research activity in human genetics.
HST.176 | Cellular and Molecular Immunology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-176-cellular-and-molecular-immunology-fall-2005 | textbook:Abbas, Abul K., and Andrew Lichtman. Cellular and Molecular Immunology. 6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 2005. textbook:Rosen, Fred, and Raif Geha. Case Studies in Immunology: A Clinical Companion. 4th ed. New York, NY: Garland Pub., 2004. textbook:Janeway, Charles A., et al. Immunobiology: The Immune System in Health and Disease. New York, NY: Garland Science, 2004. textbook:DeGowin, Richard L., and Donald D. Brown. DeGowin's Diagnostic Examination. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, Health Professions Division, 1999. textbook:Kasper, Dennis L., Eugene Braunwald, Anthony Fauci, Stephen Hauser, Dan Longo, and J. Larry Jameson. Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine. 16th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, Medical Pub. Division, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Shiv Pillai term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course covers cells and tissues of the immune system, lymphocyte development, the structure and function of antigen receptors, the cell biology of antigen processing and presentation, including molecular structure and assembly of MHC molecules, the biology of cytokines, leukocyte-endothelial interactions, and the pathogenesis of immunologically mediated diseases. The course is structured as a series of lectures and tutorials in which clinical cases are discussed with faculty tutors.LecturersFrederick W. AltMarcus AltfeldPaul AndersonJon C. AsterHugh AuchinclossSteven P. BalkSamuel M. BeharRichard S. BlumbergFrancisco BonillaBobby CherayilBenjamin DavisDavid HaflerNir HarcohenBruce HorwitzDavid M. LeeAndrew LichtmanDiane MathisRichard MitchellHidde PloeghEmmett SchmidtArlene SharpeMegan SykesShannon TurleyDale T. UmetsuUlrich von AndrianBruce WalkerKai WucherpfennigRamnik XavierSarah Henrickson
HST.452J | Statistical Physics in Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-592j-statistical-physics-in-biology-spring-2011 | textbook:Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 1994. textbook:Durbin, Richard, et al. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids. Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Frank-Kamenetskii, Maxim D. Unraveling DNA: The Most Important Molecule of Life. Translated by Lev Liapin. Basic Books, 1997. textbook:Watson, James D., et al. Molecular Biology of the Gene. 5th ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 2003. textbook:Nelson, Philip. Biological Physics: Energy, Information, Life. W. H. Freeman, 2003. textbook:Phillips, Rob, Jane Kondev, et al. Physical Biology of the Cell. Garland Science, 2008. textbook:Howard, Jonathan. Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Finkelstein, Alexei V., and Oleg B. Ptitsyn. Protein Physics: A Course of Lectures. Academic Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Mehran Kardar,  Leonid Mirny term:Spring 2011 features:This Course at MIT description:Statistical Physics in Biology is a survey of problems at the interface of statistical physics and modern biology. Topics include: bioinformatic methods for extracting information content of DNA; gene finding, sequence comparison, and phylogenetic trees; physical interactions responsible for structure of biopolymers; DNA double helix, secondary structure of RNA, and elements of protein folding; considerations of force, motion, and packaging; protein motors, membranes. We also look at collective behavior of biological elements, cellular networks, neural networks, and evolution.
HST.502 | Survival Skills for Researchers: The Responsible Conduct of Research | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-502-survival-skills-for-researchers-the-responsible-conduct-of-research-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Elizabeth R. Myers,  Stephanie J. Bird term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is designed to provide graduate students and postdoctoral associates with techniques that enhance both validity and responsible conduct in scientific practice. Lectures present practical steps for developing skills in scientific research and are combined with discussion of cases.&#160;The course covers study design, preparation of proposals and manuscripts, peer review, authorship, use of humans and non-human animals in research, allegations of misconduct, and intellectual property. Also discussed are mentoring relationships and career options. Aspects of responsible research conduct are integrated into lectures and case discussion as appropriate to the specific topic. This course also satisfies the training grant requirements of the NIH for education in the responsible conduct of research.Beginning in Spring 2004, this course will be titled "Survival Skills for Researchers: The Responsible Conduct of Research."
HST.508 | Quantitative Genomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-508-quantitative-genomics-fall-2005 | textbook:Hartl, Daniel L.A Primer of Population Genetics. 3rd ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2000. textbook:Watson, James D., Tania Baker, Stephen Bell, Alexander Gann, Michael Levine, and Richard Losick. Molecular Biology of the Gene. 5th ed. San Francisco, CA: Pearson/Benjamin Cummings, 2003. textbook:Strachan, Tom, and Andrew P. Read. Human Molecular Genetics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 1999. textbook:Koonin, Eugene V. Galperin, and Michael Y. Norwell. Sequence - Evolution - Function: Computational Approaches in Comparative Genomics. New York, NY: Springer, 2002. textbook:Li, Wen-Hsiung.Molecular Evolution. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 1997. textbook:Rice, Sean H.Evolutionary Theory: Mathematical and Conceptual Foundations. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. textbook:Felsenstein, Joseph.Inferring Phylogenies. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2003. textbook:Gillespie, John H.Population Genetics: A Concise Guide. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane,  Leonid Mirny,  Robert Berwick, Dr. Alvin Kho term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course provides a foundation in the following four areas: evolutionary and population genetics; comparative genomics; structural genomics and proteomics; and functional genomics and regulation.
HST.508 | Genomics and Computational Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-508-genomics-and-computational-biology-fall-2002 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Dr. George Church term:Fall 2002 features:Audio lectures, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course will assess the relationships among sequence, structure, and function in complex biological networks as well as progress in realistic modeling of quantitative, comprehensive, functional genomics analyses. Exercises will include algorithmic, statistical, database, and simulation approaches and practical applications to medicine, biotechnology, drug discovery, and genetic engineering. Future opportunities and current limitations will be critically addressed. In addition to the regular lecture sessions, supplementary sections are scheduled to address issues related to Perl, Mathematica and biology.
HST.510 | Genomics, Computing, Economics, and Society | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-510-genomics-computing-economics-and-society-fall-2005 | textbook:Lomborg, Bjorn, ed. Global Crises, Global Solutions. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Hawken, Paul, Amory Lovins, and L. Hunter Lovins. Natural Capitalism: Creating the Next Industrial Revolution. New York, NY: Little Brown & Company, 2000. textbook:Meadows, Donella H., Jorgen Randers, and Dennis L. Meadows. Limits to Growth: The 30-Year Update. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing, 2004. textbook:Levitt, Steven D., and Stephen J. Dubner. Freakonomics. New York, NY: Morrow/Avon, 2005. textbook:Enriquez, Juan. As the Future Catches You: How Genomics & Other Forces Are Changing Your Life, Work, Health & Wealth. New York, NY: Crown Publishing Group, 2001. textbook:Koza, John R. Genetic Programming IV: Routine Human-Competitive Machine Intelligence. New York, NY: Springer, 2003. textbook:Wilson, Edward O. Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge. New York, NY: Knopf Publishing Group, 1999. textbook:Stock, Gregory. Redesigning Humans. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin Company Trade & Reference Division, 2003. textbook:Immortality Institute. The Scientific Conquest Of Death. Buenos Aires, Argentina: LibrosEnRed, 2004. textbook:Diamond, Jared M. Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed. New York, NY: Penguin Group (USA) Incorporated, 2005. textbook:Gladwell, Malcolm. The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference. New York, NY: Little Brown & Company, 2002. textbook:Surowiecki, James. The Wisdom of Crowds. New York, NY: Knopf Publishing Group, 2005. textbook:Tisdall, James. Beginning Perl for Bioinformatics. Cambridge, MA: O'Reilly Media, Inc., 2001. textbook:Mount, David W. Bioinformatics: Sequence and Genome Analysis. Woodbury, NY: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 2001. textbook:Hunter, Lawrence, ed. "Molecular Biology for Computer Scientists." Chapter 1 in Artificial Intelligence and Molecular Biology. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1993. textbook:Durbin, Richard, Sean R. Eddy, Anders S. Krogh, and Graeme Mitchison. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1999. textbook:Weiss, Neil A. Introductory Statistics. 7th ed. Boston, MA: Addison Wesley, 2004. textbook:Gibas, Cynthia and Per Jambeck. Developing Bioinformatics Computer Skills. Cambridge, MA: O'Reilly Media, Incorporated, 2001. textbook:Walsh, Linda, ed. The Perl CD Bookshelf, Version 3.0. Cambridge, MA: O'Reilly Media, Incorporated, 2002. textbook:Chaitin, Gregory J. "Toward a Mathematical Definition of 'Life'." In The Maximum Entropy Formalism. Levine, R. D., and M. Tribus, eds. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1978, pp. 477-498. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. George Church,  Jeremy Zucker<br/>(Teaching Fellow),  Shawn Douglas<br/>(Teaching Fellow),  Alexander Wait<br/>(Teaching Fellow) term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course will focus on understanding aspects of modern technology displaying exponential growth curves and the impact on global quality of life through a weekly updated class project integrating knowledge and providing practical tools for political and business decision-making concerning new aspects of bioengineering, personalized medicine, genetically modified organisms, and stem cells. Interplays of economic, ethical, ecological, and biophysical modeling will be explored through multi-disciplinary teams of students, and individual brief reports.
HST.512 | Genomic Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-512-genomic-medicine-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane<br/>(Course Director) term:Spring 2004 features:Audio lectures, Selected lecture notes description:This course reviews the key genomic technologies and computational approaches that are driving advances in prognostics, diagnostics, and treatment. Throughout the semester, emphasis will return to issues surrounding the context of genomics in medicine including: what does a physician need to know? what sorts of questions will s/he likely encounter from patients? how should s/he respond? Lecturers will guide the student through real world patient-doctor interactions. Outcome considerations and socioeconomic implications of personalized medicine are also discussed. The first part of the course introduces key basic concepts of molecular biology, computational biology, and genomics. Continuing in the informatics applications portion of the course, lecturers begin each lecture block with a scenario, in order to set the stage and engage the student by showing: why is this important to know? how will the information presented be brought to bear on medical practice? The final section presents the ethical, legal, and social issues surrounding genomic medicine. A vision of how genomic medicine relates to preventative care and public health is presented in a discussion forum with the students where the following questions are explored: what is your level of preparedness now? what challenges must be met by the healthcare industry to get to where it needs to be? Lecturers  Dr. Atul J. Butte Dr. Steven A. Greenberg Dr. Alvin Thong-Juak Kho Dr. Peter Park Dr. Marco F. Ramoni Dr. Alberto A. Riva Dr. Zoltan Szallasi  Dr. Jeffrey Mark Drazen Dr. Todd Golub Dr. Joel Hirschhorn Dr. Greg Tucker-Kellogg Dr. Scott Weiss &nbsp;
HST.514J | Sensory-Neural Systems: Spatial Orientation from End Organs to Behavior and Adaptation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-430j-sensory-neural-systems-spatial-orientation-from-end-organs-to-behavior-and-adaptation-spring-2012 | textbook:Ciuffreda, K. J., and B. Tannen. Chapters 1, 3–5, and 8 in Eye Movement Basics for the Clinician. Mosby, 1995. textbook:Horak, F. B., and J. M. MacPherson. "Postural Orientation and Equilibrium." Chapter 7 in Handbook of Physiology: Section 12: Exercise: Regulation and Integration of Multiple Systems. Edited by L. B. Rowell and J. T. Shepherd. American Physiological Society / Oxford University Press, 1996, pp. 255–92. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Charles M. Oman, Dr. Laurence R. Young, Dr. Daniel M. Merfeld, Dr. Kathleen Cullen term:Spring 2012 features: description:This course introduces sensory systems and multi-sensory fusion using the vestibular and spatial orientation systems as a model. Topics range from end organ dynamics to neural responses, to sensory integration, to behavior, and adaptation, with particular application to balance, posture and locomotion under normal gravity and space conditions. Depending upon the background and interests of the students, advanced term project topics might include motion sickness, astronaut adaptation, artificial gravity, lunar surface locomotion, vestibulo-cardiovascular responses, vestibular neural prostheses, or other topics of interest.
HST.515J | Aerospace Biomedical and Life Support Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-423j-aerospace-biomedical-and-life-support-engineering-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dava Newman term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course introduces students to a quantitative approach to studying the problems of physiological adaptation in altered environments, especially microgravity and partial gravity environments. The course curriculum starts with an Introduction and Selected Topics, which provides background information on the physiological problems associated with human space flight, as well as reviewing terminology and key engineering concepts. Then curriculum modules on Bone Mechanics, Muscle Mechanics, Musculoskeletal Dynamics and Control, and the Cardiovascular System are presented. These modules start out with qualitative and biological information regarding the system and its adaptation, and progresses to a quantitative endpoint in which engineering methods are used to analyze specific problems and countermeasures. Additional course curriculum focuses on interdisciplinary topics, suggestions include extravehicular activity and life support. The final module consists of student term project work.
HST.522J | Biomaterials-Tissue Interactions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-441j-biomaterials-tissue-interactions-fall-2009 | textbook:[TORA] =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:Darnell, J. E., H. F. Lodish, and D. Baltimore. "Laminin, Fibronectin and Other Multiadhesive Matrix Glycoproteins." Chapter 23.4 in Molecular Cell Biology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman, 1990, pp. 920-924. textbook:Ratner, B. D. "Surface Properties of Biomaterials." In Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 21-35. textbook:Andrade, J. D., ed. Excerpts from "Principles of Protein Adsorption." Chapter 1 in Surface and Interfacial Aspects of Biomedical Polymers, Vol. 2. Protein Adsorption. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1985. textbook:Spector, M., and P. A. Lalor. "In Vivo Assessment of Tissue Compatibility." Chapter 5.3 in Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner, et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 220-228. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers the principles of materials science and cell biology underlying the design of medical implants, artificial organs, and matrices for tissue engineering. Methods for biomaterials surface characterization and analysis of protein adsorption on biomaterials. Molecular and cellular interactions with biomaterials are analyzed in terms of unit cell processes, such as matrix synthesis, degradation, and contraction. Mechanisms underlying wound healing and tissue remodeling following implantation in various organs. Tissue and organ regeneration. Design of implants and prostheses based on control of biomaterials-tissue interactions. Comparative analysis of intact, biodegradable, and bioreplaceable implants by reference to case studies. Criteria for restoration of physiological function for tissues and organs.
HST.524J | Design of Medical Devices and Implants | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-782j-design-of-medical-devices-and-implants-spring-2006 | textbook:TORA =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This design course targets the solution of clinical problems by use of implants and other medical devices. Topics include the systematic use of cell-matrix control volumes; the role of stress analysis in the design process; anatomic fit, shape and size of implants; selection of biomaterials; instrumentation for surgical implantation procedures; preclinical testing for safety and efficacy, including risk/benefit ratio assessment evaluation of clinical performance and design of clinical trials. Student project materials are drawn from orthopedic devices, soft tissue implants, artificial organs, and dental implants.
HST.525J | Tumor Pathophysiology and Transport Phenomena | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-525j-tumor-pathophysiology-and-transport-phenomena-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Rakesh Jain<br/>(Course Director) term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:Tumor pathophysiology plays a central role in the growth, invasion, metastasis and treatment of solid tumors. This class applies principles of transport phenomena to develop a systems-level, quantitative understanding of angiogenesis, blood flow and microcirculation, metabolism and microenvironment, transport and binding of small and large molecules, movement of cancer and immune cells, metastatic process, and treatment response.Additional FacultyDr. Pat D'AmoreDr. Dan DudaDr. Robert LangerProf. Robert WeinbergDr. Marsha MosesDr. Raghu KalluriDr. Lance Munn
HST.535 | Principles and Practice of Tissue Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-535-principles-and-practice-of-tissue-engineering-fall-2004 | textbook:Chamberlain, Lila J., and Loannis V. Yannas. "Preparation of Collagen-Glycosaminoglycan Copolymers for Tissue Regeneration." Tissue Engineering Methods and Protocols. Vol. 18, Methods in Molecular Medicine. Edited by J. R. Morgan and M. L. Yarmush. Totowa, NJ: Humana Press Inc., 1998, pp. 3-17. textbook:Grodzinsky, A. J., Y-J. Kim, and M. A. DiMicco. "Response of The Chondrocyte to Mechanical Stimuli." Section 7.2.1.5 in Osteoarthritis. 2nd ed. Edited by Kenneth D. Brandt, Michael Doherty, and Stefan Lohmander. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:Chamberlain, Lila J., and Loannis V. Yannas. "Preparation of Collagen-Glycosaminoglycan Copolymers for Tissue Regeneration." Tissue Engineering Methods and Protocols. Vol. 18, Methods in Molecular Medicine. Edited by J. R. Morgan and M. L. Yarmush. Totowa, NJ: Humana Press Inc., 1998, pp. 3-17. textbook:Grodzinsky, A. J., Y-J. Kim, and M. A. DiMicco. "Response of the chondrocyte to mechanical stimuli." Section 7.2.1.5 in Osteoarthritis. 2nd ed. Edited by Kenneth D. Brandt, Michael Doherty, and Stefan Lohmander. New York: Oxford University Press, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Myron Spector,  Fu-Zhai Cui term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:The principles and practice of tissue engineering (and regenerative medicine) are taught by faculty of the Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology (HST) and Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. The principles underlying strategies for employing selected cells, biomaterial scaffolds, soluble regulators or their genes, and mechanical loading and culture conditions, for the regeneration of tissues and organs in vitro and in vivo are addressed. Differentiated cell types and stem cells are compared and contrasted for this application, as are natural and synthetic scaffolds. Methodology for the preparation of cells and scaffolds in practice is described. The rationale for employing selected growth factors is covered and the techniques for incorporating their genes into the scaffolds are examined. Discussion also addresses the influence of environmental factors including mechanical loading and culture conditions (e.g., static versus dynamic). Methods for fabricating tissue-engineered products and devices for implantation are taught. Examples of tissue engineering-based procedures currently employed clinically are analyzed as case studies.Archived webcast lecture videos for the Fall 2008 version of this class can be found at the HST.535 Fall 2008 website.
HST.560J | Principles of Radiation Interactions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-55j-principles-of-radiation-interactions-fall-2004 | textbook:The chapters in the table below are from: Hall, Eric J. Radiobiology for the Radiologist. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Jeffrey Coderre term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The central theme of this course is the interaction of radiation with biological material. The course is intended to provide a broad understanding of how different types of radiation deposit energy, including the creation and behavior of secondary radiations; of how radiation affects cells and why the different types of radiation have very different biological effects. Topics will include: the effects of radiation on biological systems including DNA damage; in vitro cell survival models; and in vivo mammalian systems. The course covers radiation therapy, radiation syndromes in humans and carcinogenesis. Environmental radiation sources on earth and in space, and aspects of radiation protection are also discussed. Examples from the current literature will be used to supplement lecture material.
HST.561J | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-56j-noninvasive-imaging-in-biology-and-medicine-fall-2005 | textbook:Bushberg, Jerrold T., J. Anthony Seibert, Edwin M. Leidholdt, Jr., and John M. Boone. The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. textbook:Cho, Z. H., Joie P. Jones, and Manbir Singh. Foundations of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1993. textbook:Phelps, Michael E. PET: Molecular Imaging and Its Biological Applications. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff term:Fall 2005 features: description:22.56J aims to give graduate students and advanced undergraduates background in the theory and application of noninvasive imaging methods to biology and medicine, with emphasis on neuroimaging. The course focuses on the modalities most frequently used in scientific research (X-ray CT, PET/SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging), and includes discussion of molecular imaging approaches used in conjunction with these scanning methods. Lectures by the professor will be supplemented by in-class discussions of problems in research, and hands-on demonstrations of imaging systems.
HST.582J | Biomedical Signal and Image Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-582j-biomedical-signal-and-image-processing-spring-2007 | textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and R. W. Schafer, with J. R. Buck. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1999. textbook:Papoulis, A., and S. U. Pillai. Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2001. textbook:Siebert, W. M. Circuits, Signals and Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1985. textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and A. S. Willsky, with H. Nawab. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River: Prentice-Hall, 1996. textbook:Karu, Z. Z. Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple. Huntsville, AL: ZiZi Press, 1995. textbook:Duda, R., and P. Hart. Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1973. textbook:Duda, R., P. Hart, and D. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2000. textbook:Bishop, C. Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996. textbook:Nabney, I. Netlab: Algorithms for Pattern Recognition. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Clifford, G., F. Azuajae, and P. McSharry. Advanced Methods and Tools for ECG Data Analysis. Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2006. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and R. W. Schafer. Digital Processing of Speech Signals. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1978. textbook:Quatieri, T. F. Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing: Principles and Practice. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2001. textbook:Lim, J. S. Two-Dimensional Signal and Image Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. textbook:Epstein, C. L. Mathematics of Medical Imaging. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Webb, S. The Physics of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1988. textbook:Westbrook, C., C. Kaut Roth, and T. Talbot. MRI in Practice. 3rd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, Inc., 2005. textbook:Macovski, A. Medical Imaging Systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1983. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Gari Clifford, Dr. John Fisher, Dr. Julie Greenberg, Dr. William Wells term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course presents the fundamentals of digital signal processing with particular emphasis on problems in biomedical research and clinical medicine. It covers principles and algorithms for processing both deterministic and random signals. Topics include data acquisition, imaging, filtering, coding, feature extraction, and modeling. The focus of the course is a series of labs that provide practical experience in processing physiological data, with examples from cardiology, speech processing, and medical imaging. The labs are done in MATLAB&reg; during weekly lab sessions that take place in an electronic classroom. Lectures cover signal processing topics relevant to the lab exercises, as well as background on the biological signals processed in the labs.
HST.583 | Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Data Acquisition and Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-583-functional-magnetic-resonance-imaging-data-acquisition-and-analysis-fall-2008 | textbook:Huettel, S. A., A. W. Song, and G. McCarthy. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. 1st edition. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, Inc., 2004. textbook:Huettel, S. A., A. W. Song, and G. McCarthy. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. 2nd ed. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, Inc., 2009. textbook:Nolte, John. The Human Brain. 5th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier, 2002, chapters 1, 3, 6, 17, and portions of 22, pp. 506-525 and 547-561. textbook:Gazzaniga, M. The Cognitive Neurosciences. 3rd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004, chapter 53. textbook:Buxton, R., ed. Chapters from Introduction to Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Principles and Techniques. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001. textbook:Buxton, R., ed. Introduction to Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Principles and Techniques. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001, chapters 16 and 17. textbook:Smith, Stephen M. "Overview of fMRI Analysis." Chapter 11 in Functional MRI: An Introduction to Methods. Edited by P. Jezzard, P. M. Matthews, and S. M. Smith. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:Lazar, Nicole. "Multivariate Approaches." Chapter 7 in The Statistical Analysis of Functional MRI Data. New York, NY: Springer, 2008. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Randy Gollub<br/>(Course Director) term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This team-taught multidisciplinary course provides information relevant to the conduct and interpretation of human brain mapping studies. It begins with in-depth coverage of the physics of image formation, mechanisms of image contrast, and the physiological basis for image signals. Parenchymal and cerebrovascular neuroanatomy and application of sophisticated structural analysis algorithms for segmentation and registration of functional data are discussed. Additional topics include: fMRI experimental design including block design, event related and exploratory data analysis methods, and building and applying statistical models for fMRI data; and human subject issues including informed consent, institutional review board requirements and safety in the high field environment.Additional FacultyDiv BolarDr. Bradford DickersonDr. John GabrieliDr. Doug GreveDr. Karl HelmerDr. Dara ManoachDr. Jason MitchellDr. Christopher MooreDr. Vitaly NapadowDr. Jon PolimeniDr. Sonia PujolDr. Bruce RosenDr. Mert SabuncuDr. David SalatDr. Robert SavoyDr. David SomersDr. A. Gregory SorensenDr. Christina TriantafyllouDr. Wim VanduffelDr. Mark VangelDr. Lawrence WaldDr. Susan Whitfield-GabrieliDr. Anastasia Yendiki
HST.584J | Magnetic Resonance Analytic, Biochemical, and Imaging Techniques | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-584j-magnetic-resonance-analytic-biochemical-and-imaging-techniques-spring-2006 | textbook:Bernstein, Matt A., Kevin F. King, and Xiaohong Joe Zhou. Handbook of MRI Pulse Sequences. Boston, MA: Academic Press, 2004. textbook:Hore, P. J. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Hore, P. J., J. A. Jones, and S. Wimperis. NMR: The Toolkit. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Abragam, A. The Principles of Nuclear Magnetism. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1983. textbook:Slichter, C. P. Principles of Magnetic Resonance. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1992. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Rosen,  Lawrence Wald term:Spring 2006 features:Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is an introduction to basic NMR theory. Examples of biochemical data obtained using NMR are summarized along with other related experiments. Students participate in detailed study of NMR imaging techniques, including discussions of basic cross-sectional image reconstruction, image contrast, flow and real-time imaging, and hardware design considerations. Exposure to laboratory NMR spectroscopic and imaging equipment is included.
HST.590 | Biomedical Engineering Seminar Series: Developing Professional Skills | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-590-biomedical-engineering-seminar-series-developing-professional-skills-fall-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Mya Poe term:Fall 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course consists of a series of seminars focused on the development of professional skills. Each semester focuses on a different topic, resulting in a repeating cycle that covers medical ethics, responsible conduct of research, written and oral technical communication, and translational issues. Material and activities include guest lectures, case studies, interactive small group discussions, and role-playing simulations.
HST.590 | Biomedical Engineering Seminar Series: Topics in Medical Ethics and Responsible Conduct in Research | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-590-biomedical-engineering-seminar-series-topics-in-medical-ethics-and-responsible-conduct-in-research-fall-2005-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Jonathan Rosen term:Fall 2005 features: description:This seminar based course explores techniques for recognizing, analyzing, and resolving ethical dilemmas facing healthcare professionals and biomedical researchers in today's highly regulated environment. Guest lectures by practicing clinicians, technologists, researchers, and regulators will include case studies, interactive small group discussions, and role-playing simulations. Professional conduct topics will include authorship, conflict of interest, data acquisition and management, and the protection of human subjects and animals involved in research programs.
HST.710J | Speech Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-541j-speech-communication-spring-2004 | textbook:The readings listed below for the course's lecture (LE) sessions are from the required course textbook: Stevens, Kenneth. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Fant, G. Acoustic Theory of Speech Production. The Hague: Mouton, 1970. textbook:Flanagan, J. L. Speech Analysis, Synthesis and Perception. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1972. textbook:Halle, M., and K. N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire: Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Jakobson, R., G. Fant, and M. Halle. Preliminaries to Speech Analysis. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 1963. textbook:Ladefoged, P., and I. Maddieson. The Sounds of the World's Languages. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Maddieson, I. Patterns of Sounds. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984. textbook:Minifie, F., ed. Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders. San Diego: Singular, 1994. textbook:O'Shaughnessy, D. Speech Communication: Human and Machine. New York, NY: IEEE Press, 1999. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and B. -H. Juang. Fundamentals of Speech Recognition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. textbook:Atal, B. S., J. L. Miller, and R. D. Kent, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Processing. Woodbury NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Perception. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Production. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:Pickett, J. M. The Acoustics of Speech Communication: Fundamentals, Speech Perception Theory, and Technology. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn & Bacon: 1998. textbook:Hardcastle, W. J., and J. Laver, eds. The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, Ltd., 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Kenneth Stevens term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:6.541J surveys the structural properties of natural languages, with special emphasis on the sound pattern. Topics covered include: representation of the lexicon; physiology of speech production; articulatory phonetics; acoustical theory of speech production; acoustical and articulatory descriptions of phonetic features and of prosodic aspects of speech; perception of speech; models of lexical access and of speech production and planning; and applications to recognition and generation of speech by machine, and to the study of speech disorders.
HST.712J | Laboratory on the Physiology, Acoustics, and Perception of Speech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-542j-laboratory-on-the-physiology-acoustics-and-perception-of-speech-fall-2005 | textbook:This section shows the set of readings for each lab, which are to be read before class. The readings are from the required textbook: Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Joseph S. Perkell,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Fall 2005 features:Projects (no examples) description:The course focuses on experimental investigations of speech processes. Topics include: measurement of articulatory movements, measurements of pressures and airflows in speech production, computer-aided waveform analysis and spectral analysis of speech, synthesis of speech, perception and discrimination of speechlike sounds, speech prosody, models for speech recognition, speech disorders, and other topics.Two 1-hour lectures per weekTwo labs per weekBrief lab reportsTerm project, with short term paperNo exams
HST.714J | Acoustics of Speech and Hearing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-551j-acoustics-of-speech-and-hearing-fall-2004 | textbook:Denes, P. B., and E. N. Pinson. The Speech Chain: The physics and biology of spoken speech. 2nd ed. New York: W. H. Freeman, 1993. textbook:Other more detailed and engineering oriented texts will be useful from time: Kinsler, Frey, Coppens, and Saunders. Fundamentals of Acoustics. San Diego: Academic Press, 1982. textbook:Fletcher, Neville. Acoustic Systems in Biology. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1992. textbook:Yost, William. Fundamentals of Hearing Science. 3rd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1994. level:Graduate instructors:Christopher Shera,  John Rosowski,  Kenneth Stevens,  Louis Braida term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The Acoustics of Speech and Hearing is an H-Level graduate course that reviews the physical processes involved in the production, propagation and reception of human speech. Particular attention is paid to how the acoustics and mechanics of the speech and auditory system define what sounds we are capable of producing and what sounds we can sense. Areas of discussion include:  the acoustic cues used in determining the direction of a sound source, the acoustic and mechanical mechanisms involved in speech production and the acoustic and mechanical mechanism used to transduce and analyze sounds in the ear. 
HST.720 | Physiology of the Ear | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-720-physiology-of-the-ear-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Christopher Shera,  John Guinan, Jr.,  John Rosowski term:Fall 2004 features: description:Topics for this course are based primarily on reading and discussions of original research literature that cover the analysis as well as the underlying physical and physiological mechanisms of acoustic signals in the auditory periphery. Topics include the acoustics, mechanics, and hydrodynamics of sound transmission; the biophysical basis for cochlear amplification; the physiology of hair-cell transduction and synaptic transmission; efferent feedback control; the analysis and coding of simple and complex sounds by the inner ear; and the physiological bases for&nbsp;hearing disorders.
HST.721 | The Peripheral Auditory System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-721-the-peripheral-auditory-system-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Charlie Liberman,  Joe C. Adams term:Fall 2005 features: description:In this course, experimental approaches to the study of hearing and deafness are presented through lectures, laboratory exercises and discussions of the primary literature on the auditory periphery. Topics include inner-ear development, functional anatomy of the inner ear, cochlear mechanics and micromechanics, mechano-electric transduction by hair cells, outer hair cells' electromotility and the cochlear amplifier, otoacoustic emissions, synaptic transmission, stimulus coding in auditory nerve responses, efferent control of cochlear function, damage and repair of hair-cell organs, and sensorineural hearing loss.
HST.722J | Brain Mechanisms for Hearing and Speech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-722j-brain-mechanisms-for-hearing-and-speech-fall-2005 | textbook:Young, E. D., and K. A. Davis. "Circuitry and function of the dorsal cochlear nucleus." In Integrative Functions of the Mammalian Auditory Pathway. Edited by D. Oertel, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer, 2002. textbook:Guinan, J. J., Jr. "The physiology of olivocochlear efferents." In The Cochlea. Edited by P. Dallos, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1996, pp. 435-502. textbook:Spangler, K. M., and W. B. Warr. "The descending auditory system." In Neurobiology of Hearing: The Central Auditory System. Edited by R. A. Altschuler, R. P. Bobbin, B. M. Clopton, and D. W. Hoffman. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1991, pp. 27-45. textbook:Background   Delgutte, B. "Physiological models for basic auditory percepts." In Auditory Computation. Edited by H. H. Hawkins, T. A. McMullen, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer, 1995, pp. 157-220. textbook:Ingvar, M., and K. M. Petersson. "Functional maps and brain networks." In Brain Mapping: The Systems. Edited by A. W. Toga, and J. C. Mazziotta. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2000, pp. 111-139. textbook:Donchin, E., W. Ritter, and W. C. McCallum. "Cognitive psychophysiology: The endogenous components of the ERP." In Event-Related Potentials in Man. Edited by E. Callaway, P. Tueting, S. H. Koslow. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1979, pp. 349-411. textbook:Barlow, S. M., G. R. Farley, and R. D. Andreatta. "Neural Systems in Speech Physiology." Chapter 2 in Handbook of Clinical Speech Physiology. San Diego, CA: Singular Publishing Group, 1999, pp. 101-165. textbook:Amaral, D. G. "The functional organization of perception and movement." Chapter 19 in Principles of Neural Science. Edited by E. R. Kandel, J. H. Schwartz, and T. M. Jessell. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2000, pp. 337-348. textbook:Caplan, D., J. L. Gould. "Language and communication." In Fundamental Neuroscience. Edited by L. R. Squire, F. E. Bloom, S. K. McConnell, J. L. Roberts, N. C. Spitzer, and M. J. Zigmond. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Academic, 2002, pp. 1333-1352. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bertrand Delgutte,  David N. Caplan,  Frank H. Guenther,  Jennifer R. Melcher,  Joe C. Adams, Dr. Joseph S. Perkell, Dr. Kenneth E. Hancock,  M. Christian Brown term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:An advanced course covering anatomical, physiological, behavioral, and computational studies of the central nervous system relevant to speech and hearing. Students learn primarily by discussions of scientific papers on topics of current interest. Recent topics include cell types and neural circuits in the auditory brainstem, organization and processing in the auditory cortex, auditory reflexes and descending systems, functional imaging of the human auditory system, quantitative methods for relating neural responses to behavior, speech motor control, cortical representation of language, and auditory learning in songbirds.
HST.723J | Neural Coding and Perception of Sound | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-723j-neural-coding-and-perception-of-sound-spring-2005 | textbook:Helmholtz, H. L. F. On the Sensations of Tone. Translated by A. J. Ellis. New York, NY: Dover, 1954. textbook:von Békésy, G. Experiments in Hearing. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1960. textbook:Evans, E. "The cochlear nerve and cochlear nucleus." In Handbook of Sensory Physiology. Edited by W. D. Keidel. Heidelberg, DE: Springer, 1974, pp. 1-109. textbook:Guinan, J. J., Jr. "Physiology of olivocochlear efferents." In The Cochlea. Edited by P. Dallos, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer, 1996, pp. 435-502. textbook:Kiang, N. Y. S. "Peripheral neural processing of auditory information." In Handbook of Physiology - The nervous system III. Section 1: The Nervous System. Vol. III. Sensory Processes. Part 2. Edited by J. M. Brookhart, V. B. Mountcastle, I. Darian-Smith, and S. R. Geiger. Bethesda, MD: American Physiological Society, 1981. textbook:Delgutte, B. "Auditory neural processing of speech." In The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by W. J. Hardcastle, and J. Laver. Oxford, UK: Blackwell, 1999. pp. 507-538. textbook:Pickles, J. O. An Introduction to the Physiology of Hearing. London, UK: Academic Press, 1988. textbook:Evans, E. F. "Frequency selectivity at high signal levels of single units in cochlear nerve and cochlear nucleus." In Psychophysics and Physiology of Hearing. Edited by E. F. Evans, and J. P. Wilson. London, UK: Academic Press, 1977, pp. 185-192. textbook:Javel, E., J. A. McGee, W. Horst, and G. R. Farley. "Temporal mechanisms in auditory stimulus coding." In Auditory Function: Neurological Bases of Hearing. Edited by G. M. Edelman, W. E. Gall, and W. M. Cowan. New York, NY: Wiley, 1988, pp. 515-558. textbook:Kiang, N. Y. S., T. Watanabe, E. C. Thomas, and L. F. Clark. Discharge Patterns of Single Fibers in the Cat's Auditory Nerve . Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1966. textbook:Liberman, M. C., and M. J. Mulroy. "Acute and chronic effects of acoustic trauma: Cochlear pathology and auditory nerve pathophysiology." In New Perspectives on Noise-induced Hearing Loss. Edited by R. P. Hamernik, D. Henderson, and R. Salvi. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1981, pp. 105-135. textbook:Moore, B. C. J. An Introduction to the Psychology of Hearing. 5th ed. London, UK: Academic Press, 2003. textbook:Blauert, J. Spatial Hearing: The Psychophysics of Human Sound Localization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:Moore, B. C. J., ed. Frequency Selectivity in Hearing. London, UK; Orlando, FL: Academic Press, 1987. textbook:Darwin, C. J., and R. P. Carlyon. "Auditory grouping." In Handbook of Perception and Cognition: Hearing. Edited by Brian Moore. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1995. textbook:Bregman, Albert S. Auditory Scene Analysis. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bertrand Delgutte,  Jennifer R. Melcher,  John Guinan, Jr.,  M. Christian Brown,  Andrew Oxenham term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course focuses on neural structures and mechanisms mediating the detection, localization and recognition of sounds. Discussions cover how acoustic signals are coded by auditory neurons, the impact of these codes on behavioral performance, and the circuitry and cellular mechanisms underlying signal transformations. Topics include temporal coding, neural maps and feature detectors, learning and plasticity, and feedback control. General principles are conveyed by theme discussions of auditory masking, sound localization, musical pitch, speech coding, and cochlear implants.
HST.725 | Music Perception and Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-725-music-perception-and-cognition-spring-2009 | textbook:Deutsch, D., ed. The Psychology of Music. 2nd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1998. textbook:Handel, S. Listening: An Introduction to the Perception of Auditory Events. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Levitin, D. This Is Your Brain On Music. New York, NY: Dutton Adult/Penguin, 2006. textbook:Snyder, B. Music and Memory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Aello, R., ed. Musical Perceptions. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1994. textbook:McAdams, S., and E. Bigand. Thinking in Sound: The Cognitive Psychology of Human Audition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1993. textbook:Moore, B. C. J. An Introduction to the Psychology of Hearing. 5th ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2003. textbook:Christensen, Thomas ed. Cambridge Handbook of the History of Western Music Theory. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Zatorre, Robert J. The Biological Foundations of Music. Vol. 930. New York, NY: New York Academy of Sciences, 2001. textbook:de Boer, E. "On the 'Residue' and Auditory Pitch Perception." In Auditory System (Handbook of Sensory Physiology). Vol. 5, no. 3. Edited by W. D. Keidel, and W. D. Neff. Berlin, Germany: Springer Verlag, 1974-1976, pp. 479-583. textbook:de Cheveigné, Alain. "Pitch Perception Models." In Pitch: Neural Coding and Perception. Edited by C. J. Plack, et al. New York, NY: Springer Science - Business Media, 2005. textbook:Lyon, Richard, and Shihab Shamma. "Auditory Representations of Timbre and Pitch." In Auditory Computation. Edited by R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer Verlag, 1995. textbook:Moore, B. C. J. An Introduction to the Psychology of Hearing. 5th ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2003. textbook:Slaney, Malcolm, and Richard F. Lyon. "On the Importance of Time - A Temporal Representation of Sound." In Visual Representations of Speech Signals. Edited by M. Crawford. New York, NY: John Wiley, 1993. textbook:Risset, Jean-Claude. "Musical Acoustics." In Hearing: Handbook of Perception. Vol. IV. Edited by B. C. Carterette and M. P. Friedman. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1978. textbook:Plomp, Reinier. Aspects of Tone Sensation. London, UK: Academic Press, 1977. textbook:Sethares, William. Tuning, Timbre, Spectrum, Scale. 2nd ed. London, UK: Springer, 2005. textbook:von Helmholtz, Hermann. On The Sensations of Tone as a Physiological Basis for The Theory of Music. Mineola, NY: Dover, 1895. (Reprint 1954). textbook:Sethares, William. Tuning, Timbre, Spectrum, Scale. 2nd ed. London, UK: Springer, 2005. textbook:Bharucha, Jamshed J., and Peter M. Todd. "Modeling the Perception of Tonal Structure with Neural Nets." In Music and Connectionism. Edited by P. M. Todd, and G. Loy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1991. textbook:Handel, S. Listening: An Introduction to the Perception of Auditory Events. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1993. textbook:Krumhansl, Carol L. Cognitive Foundations of Musical Pitch. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1990. textbook:Piston, W. Harmony. 5th ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company, 1987. textbook:Rameau, J. P. Treatise on Harmony. Translated by P. Gossett. Mineola, NY: Dover, 1722. (Reprint 1971). textbook:Handel, S. Listening: An Introduction to the Perception of Auditory Events. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1993. textbook:Clynes, M., and J. Walker. "Neurobiologic Functions, Rhythm, Time, and Pulse in Music." In Music, Mind, and Brain: the Neuropsychology of Music. Edited by M. Clynes. New York, NY: Springer, 1982. textbook:Clynes, Manfred. "When Time is Music." In Rhythm in Psychological, Linguistic, and Musical Processes. Edited by M. Clynes. Springfield, IL: Charles C. Thomas, 1986. textbook:Fraisse, Paul. The Psychology of Time. Translated by Jennifer Leith. New York, NY: Harper and Row, 1976. textbook:———. "Time and Rhythm Perception." In Handbook of Perception. Volume VIII: Perceptual Coding. Edited by E. C. Carterette, and M. P. Friedman. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1979. textbook:Bregman, Albert S. Auditory Scene Analysis: The Perceptual Organization of Sound. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1994. textbook:Snyder, B. Music and Memory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Leman, Marc, ed. Music, Gestalt, and Computing. Proceedings of Joint International Conference on Cognitive and Systematic Musicology (Bruges, Belgium 1996.) New York, NY: Springer, 1997. textbook:Handel, S. Listening: An Introduction to the Perception of Auditory Events. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1993. textbook:Moore B. C. J. An Introduction to the Psychology of Hearing. 5th ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 2003. textbook:Bernstein, Leonard. The Unanswered Question. Norton Lectures, 1974. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2006. textbook:Lerdahl, F. Tonal Pitch Space. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Lerdahl, F., and R. Jackendoff. A Generative Theory of Tonal Music. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:Huron, David. Sweet Anticipation: Music and the Psychology of Expectation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2006. textbook:Meyer, Leonard B. Emotion and Meaning in Music. University of Chicago, IL: Chicago, 1961. textbook:Brown, Steven. "The 'Musilanguage' Model of Music Evolution." In Origins of Music. Edited by N. L. Wallin, B. Merker, and S. Brown. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Hauser, M. D. The Evolution of Communication. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1997. textbook:Pressing, J. "Psychological Constraints on Improvisational Expertise and Communication." Chapter 2 in The Course of Performance: Studies in the World of Musical Improvisation. Edited by B. Nettl, and M. Russell. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1998, pp. 47-67. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Peter Cariani term:Spring 2009 features:Faculty introduction - video, Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions description:This course is a survey of perceptual and cognitive aspects of the psychology of music, with special emphasis on underlying neuronal and neurocomputational representations and mechanisms. Basic perceptual dimensions of hearing (pitch, timbre, consonance/roughness, loudness, auditory grouping) form salient qualities, contrasts, patterns and streams that are used in music to convey melody, harmony, rhythm and separate voices. Perceptual, cognitive, and neurophysiological aspects of the temporal dimension of music (rhythm, timing, duration, temporal expectation) are explored. Special topics include comparative, evolutionary, and developmental psychology of music perception, biological vs. cultural influences, Gestaltist vs. associationist vs. schema-based theories, comparison of music and speech perception, parallels between music cognition and language, music and cortical action, and the neural basis of music performance.
HST.727J | The Lexicon and Its Features | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-941j-the-lexicon-and-its-features-spring-2007 | textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 1-2. textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 3-6. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Underspecification and Markedness." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Closure, Release, and Nasal Conditions." In Phonetics and Phonology 5: Nasals, Nasalization, and the Velum. Edited by Marie Huffman and Rena Krakow. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1993. textbook:———. "Paradigm Uniformity and the Phonetics-Phonology Boundary." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology V: Acquisition and the Lexicon. Edited by Michael B. Broe and Janet B. Pierrehumbert. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Wright, R. "Factors of Lexical Competition in Vowel Articulation." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology VI. Edited by John Local, Richard Ogden, and Rosalind Temple. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Remez, Robert. "A Guide to Research on the Perception of Speech." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Kenstowicz, Michael, and Charles Kisseberth. "Phonological Sketches." Chapter 4 in Generative Phonology: Description and Theory. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Articulatory-Acoustic-Auditory Relationships." Chapter 15 in The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by William J. Hardcastle and John Laver. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 1997/1999. textbook:Halle, M., and Kenneth N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK: Palgrave Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "The Dispersion Theory of Contrast." Chapter 2 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clements, G. N., and Elizabeth V. Hume. "The Internal Organization of Speech Sounds." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996, pp. 245-306. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "Auditory Features in Phonology." Chapter 1 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clemens, G. N. "Representational Economy in Constraint-based Phonology." In Distinctive Feature Theory. Edited by T. Alan Hall. New York, NY: Mouton de Gruyter, 2001. textbook:Mielke, Jeff. The Emergence of Distinctive Features. Ohio State University dissertation, 2004. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Peperkamp, Sharon, Katrin Skoruppa, and emmanual Dupoux. "The Role of Phonetic Naturalness in Phonological Rule Acquisition." Proceedings of the 30th Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development. Vol. 1. Edited by David Bamman, Tatiana Magnitskaia, and Colleen Zaller. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press, 2006, pp. 464-475. textbook:Luce, Paul A., David B. Pisoni, and Steven D. Goldinger. "Similarity Neighborhoods of Spoken Words." Cognitive Models of Speech Processing: Psycholinguistic and Computational Perspectives. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:Johnson, Keith. "Speaker Normalization in Speech Perception." In The Handbook of Speech Perception. Edited by David Pisoni and Robert Remez. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2005, pp. 363-389. textbook:Fitzpatrick, J., and L. R. Wheeldon. "Phonology and Phonetics in Psycholinguistic Models of Speech Perception." In Phonological Knowledge: Conceptual and Empirical Knowledge. Edited by Noel Burton-Roberts, Philip Carr, and Gerard Dougherty. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Pierrehumbert, Janet. "Exemplar Dynamics: Word Frequency, Lenition, and Contrast." In Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Edited by Joan L. Bybee and Paul Hopper. Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2001. textbook:Segui, Juan, and Ludovic Ferrand. "The Role of the Syllable in Speech Perception and Production." In Phonetics, Phonology, and Cognition. Edited by Jaques Durand and Bernard Laks. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Massaro, Dominic W. "Psychological Aspects of Speech Perception: Implications for Research and Theory." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Repp, Bruno H., and Alvin M. Liberman. "Phonetic Category Boundaries are Flexible." In Categorical Perception: The Groundwork of Cognition. Edited by S. Harnad. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. David Gow,  Donca Steriade,  Edward Flemming,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course provides an overview of the distinctive features which distinguish sound categories of languages of the world. Theories which relate these categories to their acoustic and articulatory correlates, both universally and in particular languages, are covered. Models of word recognition by listeners, features, and phonological structure are also discussed. In addition, the course offers a variety of perspectives on these issues, drawn from Electrical Engineering, Linguistics and Cognitive Science.
HST.730 | Molecular Biology for the Auditory System | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-730-molecular-biology-for-the-auditory-system-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Bill Sewell,  Charlie Liberman,  Chen Zheng-Yi,  Doug Cotanche,  Heidi Rehm, Dr. Marley Kenna,  Stefan Heller,  Anne Giersch term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:An introductory course in the molecular biology of the auditory system. First half focuses on human genetics and molecular biology, covering fundamentals of pedigree analysis, linkage analysis, molecular cloning, and gene analysis as well as ethical/legal issues, all in the context of an auditory disorder. Second half emphasizes molecular approaches to function and dysfunction of the cochlea, and is based on readings and discussion of research literature.
HST.750 | Modeling Issues in Speech and Hearing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-750-modeling-issues-in-speech-and-hearing-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Christopher Shera,  Jennifer R. Melcher term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course explores the theory and practice of scientific modeling in the context of auditory and speech biophysics. Based on seminar-style discussions of the research literature, the class draws on examples from hearing and speech, and explores general, meta-theoretical issues that transcend the particular subject matter. Examples include: What is a model? What is the process of model building? What are the different approaches to modeling? What is the relationship between theory and experiment? How are models tested? What constitutes a good model?
HST.921 | Information Technology in the Health Care System of the Future | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-921-information-technology-in-the-health-care-system-of-the-future-spring-2009 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bryan Bergeron, Dr. Daniel Sands,  Steven Locke<br/>(Course Director),  Mirena Bagur<br/>(Associate Course Director) term:Spring 2009 features:Faculty introduction - video, Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This innovative, trans-faculty subject teaches how information technologies (IT) are reshaping and redefining the health care marketplace through improved economies of scale, greater technical efficiencies in the delivery of care to patients, advanced tools for patient education and self-care, network integrated decision support tools for clinicians, and the emergence of e-commerce in health care. Student tutorials provide an opportunity for interactive discussion. Interdisciplinary project teams comprised of Harvard and MIT graduate students in medicine, business, law, education, engineering, computer science, public health, and government collaborate to design innovative IT applications. Projects are presented during the final class.&nbsp;Starting in Spring 2010, this course will be titled Enabling Technology Innovation in Healthcare and the Life Sciences.
HST.930J | Social Studies of Bioscience and Biotech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-930j-social-studies-of-bioscience-and-biotech-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Byron Good,  Mary-Jo DelVecchio Good,  Michael M.J. Fischer term:Fall 2005 features: description:In this course, social, ethical and clinical issues associated with the development of new biotechnologies and their integration into clinical practice is discussed. Basic scientists, clinicians, bioethicists, and social scientists present on the following four general topics: changing political economy of biotech research; problems associated with the adaption of new biotechnologies and findings from molecular biology for clinical settings; the ethical issues that emerge from clinical research and clinical use of new technologies; and the broader social ethics of access and inequality.
HST.934J | Introduction to Global Medicine: Bioscience, Technologies, Disparities, Strategies | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-934j-introduction-to-global-medicine-bioscience-technologies-disparities-strategies-spring-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Michael M.J. Fischer,  Byron Good,  Mary-Jo DelVecchio Good,  David Jones term:Spring 2010 features: description:This class provides a space for medical students and MD/PhD students, as well as HASTS (History, Anthropology, Science, Technology, and Society) PhD students to discuss social and ethical issues in the biosciences and biotechnologies as they are being developed. Discussions are with course faculty and with leading figures in developing technologies such as George Daley or George Church in stem cell or genomics research, Bruce Walker or Pardis Sabeti in setting up laboratories in Africa, Paul Farmer and Partners in Health colleagues in building local support systems and first world quality care in Haiti, Peru, and Rwanda, and Amy Farber in building patient-centered therapeutic-outcome research for critical but "orphan" diseases. Goals include stimulating students to think about applying their learning in Boston to countries around the world, including using the experiences they have had in their home countries or research experience abroad. Goals also include a mix of patient-doctor care perspectives from medical anthropology, and moving upstream in the research chain to questions of how to move discoveries from basic research through the pipelines into clinical and bedside care.
HST.935 | Narrative Ethics: Literary Texts and Moral Issues in Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-935-narrative-ethics-literary-texts-and-moral-issues-in-medicine-january-iap-2007 | level:Graduate instructors:Martha Montello term:January IAP 2007 features: description:This eight-session course, designed for a mixed group of first, second, third and fourth-year medical students, uses literary narratives and poetry to study ethical issues in medicine. This methodology emphasizes the importance of context, contingency, and circumstances in recognizing, evaluating, and resolving moral problems. The seminar will focus on developing the skills of critical and reflective reading that increase effectiveness in clinical medicine. Texts will include short fiction and poetry by authors such as Woolf, Chekhov, Carver, Kafka, Hurston, Marquez and Tolstoy. The instructor will provide necessary philosophic and literary context at the beginning of each session, the balance devoted to class discussion. During the course, students will keep a reading journal that examines the meanings of illness, the moral role of the physician, and the relevance of emotions, culture, faith, values, social realities, and life histories to patient care.
HST.939 | Designing and Sustaining Technology Innovation for Global Health Practice | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-939-designing-and-sustaining-technology-innovation-for-global-health-practice-spring-2008 | textbook:Betz, F. "Technology and Society," and "New High-Tech Businesses." Chapters 1 and 10 in Managing Technology Innovation. New York, NY: Wiley-IEEE, 1998. textbook:Yunus, M. "A New Kind of Business," and "Social Business." Chapters 1 and 2 in Creating a World Without Poverty. Cambridge, MA: PublicAffairs, 2009. textbook:Oster, S. M., et al., eds. Chapters in Generating and Sustaining Nonprofit Earned Income. New York, NY: Jossey-Bass, 2004. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jeffrey Blander,  Utkan Demirci term:Spring 2008 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:Innovation in global health practice requires leaders who are trained to think and act like entrepreneurs. Whether at a hospital bedside or in a remote village, global healthcare leaders must understand both the business of running a social venture as well as how to plan for and provide access to life saving medicines and essential health services.Each week, the course features a lecture and skills-based tutorial session led by industry, non-profit foundation, technology, and academic leaders to think outside the box in tackling and solving problems in innovation for global health practice through the rationale design of technology and service solutions. The lectures provide the foundation for faculty-mentored pilot project from MOH, students, or non-profit sponsors that may involve creation of a market or business plan, product development, or a research study design.
HST.947 | Medical Artificial Intelligence | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-947-medical-artificial-intelligence-spring-2005 | textbook:Pople, H. E., Jr. "Heuristic Methods for Imposing Structure on Ill-Structured Problems: The Structuring of Medical Diagnostics." Chapter 5 in Artificial Intelligence in Medicine. Edited by P. Szolovits. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1982, pp. 119-190. level:Graduate instructors:Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Peter Szolovits term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course provides an intensive introduction to artificial intelligence and its applications to problems of medical diagnosis, therapy selection, and monitoring and learning from databases. It meets with lectures and recitations of 6.034 Artificial Intelligence, whose material is supplemented by additional medical-specific readings in a weekly discussion session. Students are responsible for completing all homework assignments in 6.034 and for additional problems and/or papers.
HST.949J | Computational Evolutionary Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-877j-computational-evolutionary-biology-fall-2005 | textbook:Rice, Sean. Evolutionary Theory: Conceptual and Mathematical Foundations. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer, 2004. textbook:Hall, Barry. Phylogenetic Trees Made Easy. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Robert Berwick term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:Why has it been easier to develop a vaccine to eliminate polio than to control influenza or AIDS? Has there been natural selection for a 'language gene'? Why are there no animals with wheels? When does 'maximizing fitness' lead to evolutionary extinction? How are sex and parasites related? Why don't snakes eat grass? Why don't we have eyes in the back of our heads? How does modern genomics illustrate and challenge the field? This course analyzes evolution from a computational, modeling, and engineering perspective. The course has extensive hands-on laboratory exercises in model-building and analyzing evolutionary data.
HST.950J | Biomedical Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-950j-biomedical-computing-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Peter Szolovits,  Gil Alterovitz term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Analyzes computational needs of clinical medicine reviews systems and approaches that have been used to support those needs, and the relationship between clinical data and gene and protein measurements. Topics: the nature of clinical data; architecture and design of healthcare information systems; privacy and security issues; medical expertsystems; introduction to bioinformatics. Case studies and guest lectures describe contemporary systems and research projects. Term project using large clinical and genomic data sets integrates classroom topics.
HST.950J | Medical Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-950j-medical-computing-spring-2003 | textbook:The following text is required for the course and is referenced in the calendar of readings listed in the table below.  Shortliffe, E. H., L. E. Perreault, G. Wiederhold, and L. M. Fagan. Medical Informatics: Computer Applications in Health Care and Biomedicine . 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane,  Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Peter Szolovits term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:The focus of the course is on medical science and practice in the age of automation and the genome, both present and future. It ncludes an analysis of the computational needs of clinical medicine, a review systems and approaches that have been used to support those needs, and an examination of new technologies.
HST.951J | Medical Decision Support		 (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-951j-medical-decision-support-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Staal Vinterbo term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course presents the main concepts of decision analysis, artificial intelligence, and predictive model construction and evaluation in the specific context of medical applications. The advantages and disadvantages of using these methods in real-world systems&nbsp;are emphasized, while students gain hands-on experience with application specific methods. The technical focus of the course includes decision analysis, knowledge-based systems (qualitative and quantitative), learning systems (including logistic regression, classification trees, neural networks), and techniques to evaluate the performance of such systems.
HST.951J | Medical Decision Support		 (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-951j-medical-decision-support-spring-2003 | textbook:Hastie, T., R. Tibshirani, and J. H. Friedman. The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction. (Springer Series in Statistics.) New York, NY: Springer Verlag, July 30, 2003. textbook:Duda, Richard O., Peter E. Hart, and David G. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, October 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane,  Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Peter Szolovits,  Staal Vinterbo term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course presents the main concepts of decision analysis, artificial intelligence and predictive model construction and evaluation in the specific context of medical applications. It emphasizes the advantages and disadvantages of using these methods in real-world systems and provides hands-on experience. Its technical focus is on decision support, knowledge-based systems (qualitative and quantitative), learning systems (including logistic regression, classification trees, neural networks, rough sets), and techniques to evaluate the performance of such systems. It reviews computer-based diagnosis, planning and monitoring of therapeutic interventions. It also discusses implemented medical applications and the software tools used in their construction. Students produce a final project using the machine learning methods learned in the course, based on actual clinical data.LecturersProf. Stephan DreiseitlProf. Ju Jan KimProf. Bill LongProf. Marco RamoniProf. Fred ResnicProf. David Wypij
HST.952 | Computing for Biomedical Scientists | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-952-computing-for-biomedical-scientists-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Omolola Ogunyemi, Dr. Qing Zeng, Dr. Aziz Boxwala term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course introduces abstraction as an important mechanism for problem decomposition and solution formulation in the biomedical domain, and examines computer representation, storage, retrieval, and manipulation of biomedical data. As part of the course, we will briefly examine the effect of programming paradigm choice on problem-solving approaches, and introduce data structures and algorithms. We will also examine knowledge representation schemes for capturing biomedical domain complexity and principles of data modeling for efficient storage and retrieval. The final project involves building a medical information system that encompasses the different concepts taught in the course.Computer science basics covered in the first part of the course are integral to understanding topics covered in the latter part, and for completing the assigned homework.
HST.958J | Biomedical Information Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-453j-biomedical-information-technology-fall-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:C. Forbes Dewey, Jr.,  Hanry Yu,  Sourav Saha Bhowmick term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course teaches the design of contemporary information systems for biological and medical data. Examples are chosen from biology and medicine to illustrate complete life cycle information systems, beginning with data acquisition, following to data storage and finally to retrieval and analysis. Design of appropriate databases, client-server strategies, data interchange protocols, and computational modeling architectures. Students are expected to have some familiarity with scientific application software and a basic understanding of at least one contemporary programming language (e.g. C, C++, Java, Lisp, Perl, Python). A major term project is required of all students. This subject is open to motivated seniors having a strong interest in biomedical engineering and information system design with the ability to carry out a significant independent project.This course was offered as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) program as course number SMA 5304.
24.06J | Bioethics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-06j-bioethics-spring-2009 | textbook:Lock, Margaret. "Technology in Extremis." In Twice Dead: Organ Transplants and the Reinvention of Death. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2001, pp. 57-75. textbook:Kaufman, Sharon. "Life Support." Chapter 7 in And a Time to Die: How American Hospitals Shape the End of Life. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2006. textbook:Oaks, Laury. "The New Rules of Pregnancy." Chapter 2 in Smoking and Pregnancy: The Politics of Fetal Protection. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press, 2001. textbook:Kevles, Daniel J. "International Eugenics." In Deadly Medicine: Creating the Master Race. Edited by Dieter Kuntz and Susan Bachrach. Chapel Hill, NC: The University of North Carolina Press, 2006. textbook:Elliot, Carl. Better Than Well: American Medicine Meets the American Dream. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 2003. textbook:Sandel, Michael J. "Bionic Athletes." Chapter 2 in The Case Against Perfection: Ethics in the Age of Genetic Engineering. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 2009. textbook:Ubel, Peter A. "The Necessity of Rationing Health Care." In Contemporary Issues in Bioethics. 7th ed. Edited by Tom L. Beauchamp, LeRoy Walters, Jeffrey P. Kahn, and Anna C. Mastroianni. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing, 2007. level:Undergraduate instructors:Caspar Hare,  David Jones term:Spring 2009 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course does not seek to provide answers to ethical questions. Instead, the course hopes to teach students two things. First, how do you recognize ethical or moral problems in science and medicine? When something does not feel right (whether cloning, or failing to clone) &mdash; what exactly is the nature of the discomfort? What kind of tensions and conflicts exist within biomedicine? Second, how can you think productively about ethical and moral problems? What processes create them? Why do people disagree about them? How can an understanding of philosophy or history help resolve them? By the end of the course students will hopefully have sophisticated and nuanced ideas about problems in bioethics, even if they do not have comfortable answers.
24.08J | Philosophical Issues in Brain Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-08j-philosophical-issues-in-brain-science-spring-2009 | textbook:———. "On the Nature of Language." In Origins and Evolution of Language and Speech. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. Edited by S. R. Harnad, H. D. Steklis, and J. Lancaster. New York Academy of Sciences, 1976, pp. 46–57. textbook:———. Reflections on Language. 1st ed. Surrey, Ashgate, 1976. textbook:Laurence, Stephen. "Is Linguistics a Branch of Psychology?" In Epistemology of Language. Edited by Alex Barber. Oxford University Press, 2003, pp. 69–106. textbook:Locke, John. An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. Edited by  Peter H. Nidditch. Oxford University Press, 1979. textbook:Keil, Frank C. "The Emergence of Theoretical Beliefs as Constraints on Concepts." In The Epigenesis of Mind: Essays on Biology and Cognition. Edited by S. Carey and R. Gelman. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1991. textbook:Laurence, Stephen, and Eric Margolis, eds. "Concepts and Cognitive Science." In Concepts: Core Readings. The MIT Press, 1999, pp. 3–81. textbook:Sharples, R. W. Plato: Meno. Aris & Phillips, 1985. textbook:Leibniz, G. W. New Essays on Human Understanding. 2nd ed. Edited by Peter Remnant and Jonathan Bennett. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Fodor, J. A. "The Present Status of the Innateness Controversy." In RePresentations. The MIT Press, 1981. textbook:Pinker, Steven. "Fifty Thousand Innate Concepts (And Other Radical Theories of Language and Thought)." In The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window into Human Nature. Viking, 2008. textbook:Cowie, Fiona. "The Logical Problem of Language Acquisition." In What's Within?: Nativism Reconsidered. Oxford University Press, 1998, pp. 205–37. textbook:Pinker, Stephen. "How Language Works." In The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language. Harper Perennial Modern Classics, 2000, pp. 74–118. textbook:Byrne, Alex. "Intentionality." In The Philosophy of Science: An Encyclopedia. Edited by S. Sarkar and J. Pfeifer. Routledge, 2005, pp. 53–82. textbook:Gallagher, Shaun. "Neurons and Neonates: Reflections on the Molyneux Problem." In How The Body Shapes The Mind. Oxford University Press, 2006. textbook:Searle, John R. "Perception." In Mind: A Brief Introduction (Fundamentals of Philosophy). Oxford University Press, 2005, pp. 259–78. textbook:Valberg, J. J. The Puzzle of Experience. Oxford University Press, 1992, pp. 19–47. textbook:Byrne, Alex. "Behaviorism." In A Companion to the Philosophy of Mind. Edited by S. Guttenplan. Blackwell Publishers, 1996, pp. 132–40. textbook:Chalmers, David J. "How can we Construct a Science of Consciousness?" In Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Michael S. Gazzaniga. The MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Nagel, Thomas. "What is it Like to be a Bat?" In Mortal Questions. Cambridge University Press, 1991. textbook:Descartes, Rene. "Meditations on First Philosophy." In Meditations on First Philosophy. Edited by John Cottingham and Bernard Williams. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:———. "The Passions of the Soul." In Meditations on First Philosophy. Edited by John Cottingham and Bernard Williams. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Chalmers, David J. "Consciousness and Its Place in Nature." In The Blackwell Guide to the Philosophy of Mind. Edited by Stephen P. Stich and Ted A. Warfield. Wiley-Blackwell, 2003. textbook:———. "What is a Neural Correlate of Consciousness?" In Neural Correlates of Consciousness: Empirical and Conceptual Questions. Edited by Thomas Metzinger. The MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Lewis, David. "What Experience Teaches." In Mind and Cognition: An Anthology. Edited by W. G. Lycan. Hoboken, Wiley-Blackwell, 1999. level:Undergraduate instructors:Alex Byrne,  Pawan Sinha term:Spring 2009 features:Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to important philosophical questions about the mind, specifically those that are intimately connected with contemporary psychology and neuroscience. Are our concepts innate or are they acquired by experience? And what does it even mean to call a concept 'innate'? Are 'mental images' pictures in the head? Is color in the mind or in the world? Is the mind nothing more than the brain? Can there be a science of consciousness? The course includes guest lectures by philosophers and cognitive scientists.
24.904J | Language Acquisition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-57j-language-acquisition-fall-2001 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Ken Wexler term:Fall 2001 features: description:Covers the major results in the study of first language acquisition concentrating on the development of linguistic structure, including sentence structure and morphology. Universal aspects of development are discussed, as well as a variety of cross-linguistic phenomena. Theories of language learning are considered, including parameter-setting and maturation.
24.905J | Psycholinguistics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-59j-psycholinguistics-spring-2005 | textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 4. textbook:Lasnik, H. "The forms of sentences." In An Invitation to Cognitive Science: Language. Vol. 1. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 283-310. textbook:Wolf, F., and E. Gibson. "Parsing: Overview." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Gibson, E. "Linguistic complexity in sentence comprehension." In  Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002, pp. 1137-1141. textbook:Trueswell, J. C., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Toward a lexicalist framework of constraint based syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 155-180. textbook:Gibson, E. "The dependency locality theory: A distance-based theory of linguistic complexity." In Image, Language, Brain. Edited by Y. Miyashita, A. Marantz, and W. O'Neil. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, pp. 95-126. textbook:Spivey-Knowlton, M., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Referential context and syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 415-439. textbook:Jurafsky, D., and J. H. Martin. Speech and Language Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000, chapter 18. textbook:Osterhout, L. "Event-related brain potentials as tools." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 15-44. textbook:Ferreira, F. "Prosody." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 7. textbook:Whitney, P. The Psychology of Language. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Gleitman, L. R., and E. L. Newport. "The invention of language by children: Environmental and biological influences on the acquisition of language." In Language. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 1-24. textbook:Pinker, S. "Language acquisition." In Language. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 135-183. textbook:Fromkin, V. A., and N. B. Ratner. "Speech production." In Psycholinguistics. Edited by J. Berko Gleason, and N. B. Ratner. Fort Worth, Texas: Harcourt Brace, 1993. textbook:Whitney, P. The Psychology of Language. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 1998, chapter 4. level:Undergraduate instructors:Edward Gibson term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course covers central topics in language processing, including: the structure of language; sentence, discourse, and morphological processing; storage and access of words in the mental dictionary; speech processing; the relationship between the computational resources available in working memory and the language processing mechanism; and ambiguity resolution. The course also considers computational modeling, including connectionist models; the relationship between language and thought; and issues in language acquisition including critical period phenomena, the acquisition of speech, and the acquisition of words. Experimental methodologies such as self-paced reading, eye-tracking, cross-modal priming, and neural imaging methods are also examined.
24.907J | Abnormal Language | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-56j-abnormal-language-fall-2004 | textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 4, "The Emergence of Syntax." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, pp. 101-150. textbook:Wexler, Kenneth. "Optional Infinitives, Head Movement and the Economy of Derivations." Chapter 14 in Verb Movement. Edited by David Lightfoot, and Norbert Hornstein. Cambridge; New York, NY, USA: Cambridge University Press, 1994, pp. 305-350. textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 8, "Acquisition of Binding Principles." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, Part 1. textbook:———. Chapter 8, "Acquisition of Binding Principles." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, Part 2. textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 7, "Acquisition of A-Movement." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002. textbook:Borer, Hagit, and Kenneth Wexler. "The Maturation of Syntax." In Parameter Setting. Edited by Thomas Roeper, and Edwin Williams. Dordrecht, Boston: D. Reidel Pub. Co., and Norwell; MA: Sold and distributed in the U.S.A. and Canada by Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1987. pp. 123-172. textbook:Fowler, A. E., Gelman, R., and Gleitman, L. R. "The course of language learning in children with Down Syndrome." In Tager-Flusberg, Helen, ed. Constraints on language acquisition: studies of atypical populations. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 91-140. textbook:Bellugi, U., S. Marks, A. Bihrle, and H. Sabo. "Dissociation Between Language and Cognitive Functions in Williams Syndrome." In Spatial Cognition: Brain Bases and Development. Edited by Joan Stiles-Davis, Mark Kritchevsky, and Ursula Bellugi. Hillsdale, NJ: L. Erlbaum Associates, 1988, pp. 177-189. Spatial Cognition Workshop (1984: Salk Institute for Biological Studies). level:Undergraduate instructors:Mr. Christopher Hirsch,  Ken Wexler term:Fall 2004 features: description:Introduction to the linguistic study of language pathology, concentrating on experimental approaches and theoretical explanations. Discussion of Specific Language Impairment, autism, Down syndrome, Williams syndrome, normal aging, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, hemispherectomy and aphasia. Focuses on the comparison of linguistic abilities among these syndromes, while drawing clear comparisons with first and second language acquisition. Topics include the lexicon, morphology, syntax, semantics and pragmatics. Relates the lost linguistic abilities in these syndromes to properties of the brain.
24.941J | The Lexicon and Its Features | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-941j-the-lexicon-and-its-features-spring-2007 | textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 1-2. textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 3-6. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Underspecification and Markedness." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Closure, Release, and Nasal Conditions." In Phonetics and Phonology 5: Nasals, Nasalization, and the Velum. Edited by Marie Huffman and Rena Krakow. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1993. textbook:———. "Paradigm Uniformity and the Phonetics-Phonology Boundary." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology V: Acquisition and the Lexicon. Edited by Michael B. Broe and Janet B. Pierrehumbert. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Wright, R. "Factors of Lexical Competition in Vowel Articulation." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology VI. Edited by John Local, Richard Ogden, and Rosalind Temple. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Remez, Robert. "A Guide to Research on the Perception of Speech." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Kenstowicz, Michael, and Charles Kisseberth. "Phonological Sketches." Chapter 4 in Generative Phonology: Description and Theory. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Articulatory-Acoustic-Auditory Relationships." Chapter 15 in The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by William J. Hardcastle and John Laver. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 1997/1999. textbook:Halle, M., and Kenneth N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK: Palgrave Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "The Dispersion Theory of Contrast." Chapter 2 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clements, G. N., and Elizabeth V. Hume. "The Internal Organization of Speech Sounds." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996, pp. 245-306. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "Auditory Features in Phonology." Chapter 1 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clemens, G. N. "Representational Economy in Constraint-based Phonology." In Distinctive Feature Theory. Edited by T. Alan Hall. New York, NY: Mouton de Gruyter, 2001. textbook:Mielke, Jeff. The Emergence of Distinctive Features. Ohio State University dissertation, 2004. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Peperkamp, Sharon, Katrin Skoruppa, and emmanual Dupoux. "The Role of Phonetic Naturalness in Phonological Rule Acquisition." Proceedings of the 30th Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development. Vol. 1. Edited by David Bamman, Tatiana Magnitskaia, and Colleen Zaller. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press, 2006, pp. 464-475. textbook:Luce, Paul A., David B. Pisoni, and Steven D. Goldinger. "Similarity Neighborhoods of Spoken Words." Cognitive Models of Speech Processing: Psycholinguistic and Computational Perspectives. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:Johnson, Keith. "Speaker Normalization in Speech Perception." In The Handbook of Speech Perception. Edited by David Pisoni and Robert Remez. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2005, pp. 363-389. textbook:Fitzpatrick, J., and L. R. Wheeldon. "Phonology and Phonetics in Psycholinguistic Models of Speech Perception." In Phonological Knowledge: Conceptual and Empirical Knowledge. Edited by Noel Burton-Roberts, Philip Carr, and Gerard Dougherty. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Pierrehumbert, Janet. "Exemplar Dynamics: Word Frequency, Lenition, and Contrast." In Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Edited by Joan L. Bybee and Paul Hopper. Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2001. textbook:Segui, Juan, and Ludovic Ferrand. "The Role of the Syllable in Speech Perception and Production." In Phonetics, Phonology, and Cognition. Edited by Jaques Durand and Bernard Laks. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Massaro, Dominic W. "Psychological Aspects of Speech Perception: Implications for Research and Theory." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Repp, Bruno H., and Alvin M. Liberman. "Phonetic Category Boundaries are Flexible." In Categorical Perception: The Groundwork of Cognition. Edited by S. Harnad. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. David Gow,  Donca Steriade,  Edward Flemming,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course provides an overview of the distinctive features which distinguish sound categories of languages of the world. Theories which relate these categories to their acoustic and articulatory correlates, both universally and in particular languages, are covered. Models of word recognition by listeners, features, and phonological structure are also discussed. In addition, the course offers a variety of perspectives on these issues, drawn from Electrical Engineering, Linguistics and Cognitive Science.
24.945J | Language Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-591j-language-processing-fall-2004 | textbook:Trueswell, J. C., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Toward a lexicalist framework of constraint based syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 155-180. textbook:Gibson, E. "The dependency locality theory: A distance-based theory of linguistic complexity." In Image, Language, Brain. Edited by Y. Miyashita, A. Marantz, and W. O'Neil. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, pp. 95-126. textbook:Wolf, F., and E. Gibson. "Parsing: Overview." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Jurafsky, D., and J. H. Martin. "Discourse." Chapter 18 in Speech and language processing: An introduction to NLP, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. textbook:Spivey-Knowlton, M., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Referential context and syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 415-439. textbook:Osterhout, L. "Event-related brain potentials as tools." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 15-44. textbook:Jurafsky, D., and J. H. Martin. "Discourse." Chapter 18 in Speech and language processing: An introduction to NLP, computational linguistics, and speech recognition. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. textbook:Ferreira, F. "Prosody." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Edward Gibson term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is a seminar in real-time language comprehension. It considers models of sentence and discourse comprehension from the linguistic, psychology, and artificial intelligence literature, including symbolic and connectionist models. Topics include ambiguity resolution and linguistic complexity; the use of lexical, syntactic, semantic, pragmatic, contextual and prosodic information in language comprehension; the relationship between the computational resources available in working memory and the language processing mechanism; and the psychological reality of linguistic representations.
24.949J | Language Acquisition I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-601j-language-acquisition-i-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Ken Wexler term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:Lectures, reading, and discussion of current theory and data concerning the psychology and biology of language acquisition. Emphasizes learning of syntax and morphology, together with some discussion of phonology, and especially research relating grammatical theory and learnability theory to empirical studies of children.
24.966J | Laboratory on the Physiology, Acoustics, and Perception of Speech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-542j-laboratory-on-the-physiology-acoustics-and-perception-of-speech-fall-2005 | textbook:This section shows the set of readings for each lab, which are to be read before class. The readings are from the required textbook: Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Joseph S. Perkell,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Fall 2005 features:Projects (no examples) description:The course focuses on experimental investigations of speech processes. Topics include: measurement of articulatory movements, measurements of pressures and airflows in speech production, computer-aided waveform analysis and spectral analysis of speech, synthesis of speech, perception and discrimination of speechlike sounds, speech prosody, models for speech recognition, speech disorders, and other topics.Two 1-hour lectures per weekTwo labs per weekBrief lab reportsTerm project, with short term paperNo exams
24.968J | Speech Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-541j-speech-communication-spring-2004 | textbook:The readings listed below for the course's lecture (LE) sessions are from the required course textbook: Stevens, Kenneth. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Fant, G. Acoustic Theory of Speech Production. The Hague: Mouton, 1970. textbook:Flanagan, J. L. Speech Analysis, Synthesis and Perception. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1972. textbook:Halle, M., and K. N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire: Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Jakobson, R., G. Fant, and M. Halle. Preliminaries to Speech Analysis. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 1963. textbook:Ladefoged, P., and I. Maddieson. The Sounds of the World's Languages. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Maddieson, I. Patterns of Sounds. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984. textbook:Minifie, F., ed. Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders. San Diego: Singular, 1994. textbook:O'Shaughnessy, D. Speech Communication: Human and Machine. New York, NY: IEEE Press, 1999. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and B. -H. Juang. Fundamentals of Speech Recognition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. textbook:Atal, B. S., J. L. Miller, and R. D. Kent, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Processing. Woodbury NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Perception. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Production. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:Pickett, J. M. The Acoustics of Speech Communication: Fundamentals, Speech Perception Theory, and Technology. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn & Bacon: 1998. textbook:Hardcastle, W. J., and J. Laver, eds. The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, Ltd., 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Kenneth Stevens term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:6.541J surveys the structural properties of natural languages, with special emphasis on the sound pattern. Topics covered include: representation of the lexicon; physiology of speech production; articulatory phonetics; acoustical theory of speech production; acoustical and articulatory descriptions of phonetic features and of prosodic aspects of speech; perception of speech; models of lexical access and of speech production and planning; and applications to recognition and generation of speech by machine, and to the study of speech disorders.
3.021J | Introduction to Modeling and Simulation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-021j-introduction-to-modeling-and-simulation-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Markus Buehler,  Jeffrey Grossman term:Spring 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject provides an introduction to modeling and simulation, covering continuum methods, atomistic and molecular simulation, and quantum mechanics. Hands-on training is provided in the fundamentals and applications of these methods to key engineering problems. The lectures provide exposure to areas of application based on the scientific exploitation of the power of computation. We use web based applets for simulations, thus extensive programming skills are not required.
3.034 | Organic & Biomaterials Chemistry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-034-organic-biomaterials-chemistry-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Krystyn van Vliet,  Michael Rubner,  Angela M. Belcher term:Fall 2005 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers principles of materials chemistry common to organic materials ranging from biological polypeptides to engineered block copolymers. Topics include molecular structure, polymer synthesis reactions, protein-protein interactions, multifunctional organic materials including polymeric nanoreactors, conducting polymers and virus-mediated biomineralization. WARNING NOTICE The experiments described in these materials are potentially hazardous and require a high level of safety training, special facilities and equipment, and supervision by appropriate individuals. You bear the sole responsibility, liability, and risk for the implementation of such safety procedures and measures. MIT shall have no responsibility, liability, or risk for the content or implementation of any of the material presented. Legal Notice
3.051J | Materials for Biomedical Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-051j-materials-for-biomedical-applications-spring-2006 | textbook:Ratner, Buddy D., et al. Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials in Medicine. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Anne Mayes term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Exams and solutions description:This class provides an introduction to the interactions between cells and the surfaces of biomaterials. The course covers: surface chemistry and physics of selected metals, polymers, and ceramics; surface characterization methodology; modification of biomaterials surfaces; quantitative assays of cell behavior in culture; biosensors and microarrays; bulk properties of implants; and acute and chronic response to implanted biomaterials. General topics include biosensors, drug delivery, and tissue engineering.
3.052 | Nanomechanics of Materials and Biomaterials | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-052-nanomechanics-of-materials-and-biomaterials-spring-2007 | textbook:Drexler, K. E. "Engines of Construction." Chapter 1 in Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology. New York, NY: Doubleday, New York, 1987. textbook:Karp, G. "Covalent Bonds" (Section 2.1), and "Noncovalent Bonds" (Section 2.2) in Cell and Molecular Biology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1999. textbook:Ashby, M. F., and D. R. H. Jones. Chapter 3 "The Elastic Moduli," and Chapter 4 "Bonding Between Atoms." In Engineering Materials 1 - An Introduction to Properties, Applications, and Design. 3rd ed. Burlington MA: Elsevier Butterworth-Heinemann, 2005. textbook:Van Vlack, L. H. "Introduction to Materials: Review of Chemical Bonding." Chapter 2 in Elements of Materials Science and Engineering. 5th ed. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1985. textbook:Israelachvili, J. "Classification of Forces." Section 2.6 in Intermolecular and Surface Forces. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1992. textbook:Van Vlack, L. H. "Introduction to Materials: Review of Chemical Bonding." Chapter 2 in Elements of Materials Science and Engineering. 5th ed. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1985. textbook:Israelachvili, J. "Classification of Forces." Section 2.6 in Intermolecular and Surface Forces. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1992. level:Undergraduate instructors:Christine Ortiz term:Spring 2007 features:Demonstration - video, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course focuses on the latest scientific developments and discoveries in the field of nanomechanics, the study of forces and motion on extremely tiny (10-9 m) areas of synthetic and biological materials and structures. At this level, mechanical properties are intimately related to chemistry, physics, and quantum mechanics. Most lectures will consist of a theoretical component that will then be compared to recent experimental data (case studies) in the literature. The course begins with a series of introductory lectures that describes the normal and lateral forces acting at the atomic scale. The following discussions include experimental techniques in high resolution force spectroscopy, atomistic aspects of adhesion, nanoindentation, molecular details of fracture, chemical force microscopy, elasticity of single macromolecular chains, intermolecular interactions in polymers, dynamic force spectroscopy, biomolecular bond strength measurements, and molecular motors.
3.091SC | Introduction to Solid State Chemistry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-091sc-introduction-to-solid-state-chemistry-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Donald Sadoway term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:Introduction to Solid State Chemistry is a first-year single-semester college course on the principles of chemistry. This unique and popular course satisfies MIT's general chemistry degree requirement, with an emphasis on solid-state materials and their application to engineering systems.
3.155J | Micro/Nano Processing Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-152j-micro-nano-processing-technology-fall-2005 | textbook:Plummer, James, Michael Deal, and Peter Griffin. Silicon VLSI Technology: Fundamentals, Practice, and Modeling. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. textbook:Campbell, Stephen. The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Wolf, Stanley, and Richard Tauber. Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era. Vol. 1. Sunset Beach, CA: Lattice Press, 1986. textbook:Sze, Simon. VLSI Technology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988. textbook:Ghandi, Sorab. VLSI Fabrication Principles: Silicon and Gallium Arsenide. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1994. textbook:Pierret, Robert, and Gerold Neudeck. Modular Series on Solid State Devices. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1982. textbook:Grove, A. S. Physics and Technology of Semiconductor Devices. New York, NY: Wiley, 1967. textbook:Colclaser, R. A. Microelectronics Processing and Device Design. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. textbook:Vossen, John, and Werner Kern. Thin Film Processes. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1978. textbook:Mayer, James, and Sylvanus Lau. Electronic Materials Science: For Integrated Circuits in Si and GaAs. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Murarka, Shyam, and Martin Peckerar. Electronic Materials: Science and Technology. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Ohring, Milton. The Materials Science of Thin Films. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2001. textbook:Senturia, Stephen. Microsystem Design. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. textbook:Madou, Marc. Fundamentals of Microfabrication: The Science of Miniaturization. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2002. textbook:Kovacs, Gregory. Micromachined Transducers Sourcebook. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1998. textbook:May, G. S., and S. Sze. Fundamentals of Semiconductor Fabrication. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2003. textbook:Smith, D. L. Thin Film Deposition: Principles and Practice. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1995. textbook:Perleman, Leslie, and Edward Barrett. The Mayfield Handbook of Technical & Scientific Writing. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1997. level:Undergraduate instructors:Martin Schmidt,  Susan Ruff, Dr. Robert O’Handley term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course introduces the theory and technology of micro/nano fabrication. Lectures and laboratory sessions focus on basic processing techniques such as diffusion, oxidation, photolithography, chemical vapor deposition, and more. Through team lab assignments, students are expected to gain an understanding of these processing techniques, and how they are applied in concert to device fabrication. Students enrolled in this course have a unique opportunity to fashion and test micro/nano-devices, using modern techniques and technology.
3.560J | Systems Perspectives on Industrial Ecology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-123j-systems-perspectives-on-industrial-ecology-spring-2006 | textbook:Colby, Michael E. "Environmental Management in Development: The Evolution of Paradigms." World Bank Discussion Paper No 80. Washington, DC: The World Bank, 1990. textbook:UN World Commission on Environment and Development. "Towards Sustainable Development." Chapter 2 in Our Common Future. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1987. textbook:Bauman, H., and A. Tillman. Hitch Hiker's Guide To LCA: An Orientation in Life Cycle Assessment Methodology and Application. Lund, Sweden: Studentlitteratur AB, 2004, chapters 1, 3, 4, and 5. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Frank Field, Dr. Jeremy Gregory,  Randolph Kirchain term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course examines quantitative techniques for life cycle analysis of the impacts of materials extraction, processing use, and recycling; and economic analysis of materials processing, products, and markets. Student teams undertake a major case study using the latest methods of analysis and computer-based models of materials process.
3.96J | Biomaterials-Tissue Interactions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-441j-biomaterials-tissue-interactions-fall-2009 | textbook:[TORA] =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:Darnell, J. E., H. F. Lodish, and D. Baltimore. "Laminin, Fibronectin and Other Multiadhesive Matrix Glycoproteins." Chapter 23.4 in Molecular Cell Biology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman, 1990, pp. 920-924. textbook:Ratner, B. D. "Surface Properties of Biomaterials." In Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 21-35. textbook:Andrade, J. D., ed. Excerpts from "Principles of Protein Adsorption." Chapter 1 in Surface and Interfacial Aspects of Biomedical Polymers, Vol. 2. Protein Adsorption. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1985. textbook:Spector, M., and P. A. Lalor. "In Vivo Assessment of Tissue Compatibility." Chapter 5.3 in Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner, et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 220-228. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers the principles of materials science and cell biology underlying the design of medical implants, artificial organs, and matrices for tissue engineering. Methods for biomaterials surface characterization and analysis of protein adsorption on biomaterials. Molecular and cellular interactions with biomaterials are analyzed in terms of unit cell processes, such as matrix synthesis, degradation, and contraction. Mechanisms underlying wound healing and tissue remodeling following implantation in various organs. Tissue and organ regeneration. Design of implants and prostheses based on control of biomaterials-tissue interactions. Comparative analysis of intact, biodegradable, and bioreplaceable implants by reference to case studies. Criteria for restoration of physiological function for tissues and organs.
3.961J | Design of Medical Devices and Implants | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-782j-design-of-medical-devices-and-implants-spring-2006 | textbook:TORA =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This design course targets the solution of clinical problems by use of implants and other medical devices. Topics include the systematic use of cell-matrix control volumes; the role of stress analysis in the design process; anatomic fit, shape and size of implants; selection of biomaterials; instrumentation for surgical implantation procedures; preclinical testing for safety and efficacy, including risk/benefit ratio assessment evaluation of clinical performance and design of clinical trials. Student project materials are drawn from orthopedic devices, soft tissue implants, artificial organs, and dental implants.
3.962J | Molecular Principles of Biomaterials | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-462j-molecular-principles-of-biomaterials-spring-2006 | textbook:Young, R. J., and P. A. Lovell, eds. "Structure." Chapter 4 in Introduction to Polymers. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2000. 241-309. textbook:———. "Drug Administration and Drug Effectiveness." Chapter 2 in Drug Delivery: Engineering Principles for Drug Therapy (Topics in Chemical Engineering). New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Flory, Paul J. Principles of Polymer Chemistry. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1953, pp. 464-469 and pp. 576-581. textbook:———. Principles of Polymer Chemistry. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1953, pp. 495-507. textbook:Lodish, Harvey, Arnold Berk, Lawrence Zipursky, Paul Matsudaira, David Baltimore, and James Darnell, eds. "The Extracellular Matrix." In Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, October 1999, pp. 1124-1150. textbook:Mann, Stephen. Biomineralization: Principles and Concepts in Bioinorganic Materials Chemistry. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002, chapter 6, pp. 89-102. textbook:Allen, Samuel M., and Edwin L. Thomas. The Structure of Materials (MIT Series in Materials Science and Engineering). New York, NY: Wiley, 1999, pp. 135-138. textbook:Plotkin, Stanley A., Walter A. Orenstein, and Paul A. Offit. "The Immunology of Vaccination." In Vaccines. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 2003, pp. 28-39. textbook:Abbas, Abul K., Andrew H. Lichtman, and Jordan S. Pober. "General Properties of Immune Responses." In Cellular and Molecular Immunology. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Company, 2000. pp. 3-16. level:Graduate instructors:Darrell Irvine term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the analysis and design at a molecular scale of materials used in contact with biological systems, including biotechnology and biomedical engineering. Topics include molecular interactions between bio- and synthetic molecules and surfaces; design, synthesis, and processing approaches for materials that control cell functions; and application of state-of-the-art materials science to problems in tissue engineering, drug delivery, vaccines, and cell-guiding surfaces.
18.361J | Introduction to Modeling and Simulation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-021j-introduction-to-modeling-and-simulation-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Markus Buehler,  Jeffrey Grossman term:Spring 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject provides an introduction to modeling and simulation, covering continuum methods, atomistic and molecular simulation, and quantum mechanics. Hands-on training is provided in the fundamentals and applications of these methods to key engineering problems. The lectures provide exposure to areas of application based on the scientific exploitation of the power of computation. We use web based applets for simulations, thus extensive programming skills are not required.
18.094J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
18.417 | Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-417-introduction-to-computational-molecular-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:Readings are from the textbook:  Jones, Neil C., and Pavel A. Pevzner. An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms (Computational Molecular Biology), Bradford Books. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, August 1, 2004. textbook:Setubal, Carlos, and Joao Meidanis. Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology. 1st ed. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing, January 16, 1997. textbook:Durbin, Richard, Sean R. Eddy, Anders Krogh, and Graeme Mitchison. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, Reprint edition, July 1, 1999. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. 1st ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, January 15, 1997. textbook:Lodish, Harvey, David Baltimore, Arnold Berk, S. Lawrence Zipursky, Paul Matsudaira, and James Darnell. Molecular Cell Biology. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman & Company, 3rd Package edition, March 1, 1995. textbook:Branden, Carl-Ivar, and John Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Garland Publishing, January 15, 1999. textbook:Clote, Peter, and Rolf Backofen. Computational Molecular Biology: Introduction. 1st ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, September 22, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Ross Lippert term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course introduces the basic computational methods used to understand the cell on a molecular level. It covers subjects such as the sequence alignment algorithms: dynamic programming, hashing, suffix trees, and Gibbs sampling. Furthermore, it focuses on computational approaches to: genetic and physical mapping; genome sequencing, assembly, and annotation; RNA expression and secondary structure; protein structure and folding; and molecular interactions and dynamics.
2.673J | Biological Engineering II: Instrumentation and Measurement | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-309-biological-engineering-ii-instrumentation-and-measurement-fall-2006 | textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005, chapters 2, 3, 9, and 10. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "Sinusoidal Steady State." Chapter 13 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "The Operational Amplifier Abstraction." Chapter 15 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Strang, G. "Analytical Methods." Chapter 4 in Introduction to Applied Mathematics. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 1986. textbook:W. H., et al. "Introduction," and "Fourier Transform of Discretely Sampled Data;" Chapter 12.0-12.1 and "Power Spectrum Estimation Using the FFT." Chapter 13.4 in Press, Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. "Histograms, Contrast, Spatial Filtering" Chapter 4, "Morphological Operations" Chapter 8, "Segmentation" Chapter 7, and "Recognition & Interpretation" Chapter 9 in Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Maxim Shusteff,  Peter So,  Scott Manalis term:Fall 2006 features:Tutorial - video, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers sensing and measurement for quantitative molecular/cell/tissue analysis, in terms of genetic, biochemical, and biophysical properties. Methods include light and fluorescence microscopies; electro-mechanical probes such as atomic force microscopy, laser and magnetic traps, and MEMS devices; and the application of statistics, probability and noise analysis to experimental data. Enrollment preference is given to juniors and seniors.
2.772J | Thermodynamics of Biomolecular Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-110j-thermodynamics-of-biomolecular-systems-fall-2005 | textbook:[SAB]  Silbey, R., R. Alberty, and M. Bawendi. Physical Chemistry. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2004. textbook:[DB]  Dill, Ken A., and Sarina Bromberg. Molecular Driving Forces: Statistical Thermodynamics in Chemistry and Biology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kim Hamad-Schifferli,  Linda Griffith,  Moungi Bawendi,  Robert Field term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This subject deals primarily with equilibrium properties of macroscopic and microscopic systems, basic thermodynamics, chemical equilibrium of reactions in gas and solution phase, and macromolecular interactions.
2.772J | Statistical Thermodynamics of Biomolecular Systems (BE.011J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-011j-statistical-thermodynamics-of-biomolecular-systems-be-011j-spring-2004 | textbook:All Text Readings are in  Dill, K., and S. Bromberg. Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:van Holde =  van Holde, K. E., W. C. Johnson, and P. S. Ho. Principles of Physical Biochemistry. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Eisenberg =  Eisenberg, D., and D. Crothers. Physical Chemistry with Applications to the Life Sciences. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings, 1979. textbook:Kittel =  Kittel, C., and H. Kroemer. Thermal Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1980. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kim Hamad-Schifferli,  Linda Griffith term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to the physical chemistry of biological systems. Topics include: connection of macroscopic thermodynamic properties to microscopic molecular properties using statistical mechanics, chemical potentials, equilibrium states, binding cooperativity, behavior of macromolecules in solution and at interfaces, and solvation. Example problems include protein structure, genomic analysis, single molecule biomechanics, and biomaterials.
2.790J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
2.791J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
2.792J | Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-542j-quantitative-physiology-organ-transport-systems-spring-2004 | textbook:Listed below are also relevant sections from the course textbook:  Costanzo, Linda S. Physiology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jose Venegas,  Roger Mark term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course elaborates on the application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. It discusses mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. It also discusses anatomical, physiological, and pathophysiological features of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems. There is emphasis on those systems, features, and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences.
2.793J | Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-330j-fields-forces-and-flows-in-biological-systems-spring-2007 | textbook:TY & K:  Truskey, G. A., F. Yuan, and D. F. Katz. Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:H & M: Haus, H. A., and J. R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Probstein:  Probstein, R. F. Physiochemical Hydrodynamics: An Introduction. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2003. textbook:Jones:  Jones, T. B. Electromechanics of Particles. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Deen, W. "Stream Function." Section 5.9 in Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Deen, W. "Appendix A, Tables A-1 through A-4 (Vector Identity summary)." In Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Berg, H. C. "One-dimensional Random Walks." In Random Walks in Biology. 2nd ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jongyoon Han,  Scott Manalis term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces the basic driving forces for electric current, fluid flow, and mass transport, plus their application to a variety of biological systems. Basic mathematical and engineering tools will be introduced, in the context of biology and physiology. Various electrokinetic phenomena are also considered as an example of coupled nature of chemical-electro-mechanical driving forces. Applications include transport in biological tissues and across membranes, manipulation of cells and biomolecules, and microfluidics.
2.794J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
2.717J | Optical Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-717j-optical-engineering-spring-2002 | textbook:G =  Goodman, Joseph W. Statistical Optics. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Interscience, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:George Barbastathis term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course concerns the theory and practice of optical methods in engineering and system design, with an emphasis on diffraction, statistical optics, holography, and imaging. It provides the engineering methodology skills necessary to incorporate optical components in systems serving diverse areas such as precision engineering and metrology, bio-imaging, and computing (sensors, data storage, communication in multi-processor systems). Experimental demonstrations and a design project are included.
2.761J | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-56j-noninvasive-imaging-in-biology-and-medicine-fall-2005 | textbook:Bushberg, Jerrold T., J. Anthony Seibert, Edwin M. Leidholdt, Jr., and John M. Boone. The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. textbook:Cho, Z. H., Joie P. Jones, and Manbir Singh. Foundations of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1993. textbook:Phelps, Michael E. PET: Molecular Imaging and Its Biological Applications. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff term:Fall 2005 features: description:22.56J aims to give graduate students and advanced undergraduates background in the theory and application of noninvasive imaging methods to biology and medicine, with emphasis on neuroimaging. The course focuses on the modalities most frequently used in scientific research (X-ray CT, PET/SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging), and includes discussion of molecular imaging approaches used in conjunction with these scanning methods. Lectures by the professor will be supplemented by in-class discussions of problems in research, and hands-on demonstrations of imaging systems.
2.771J | Biomedical Information Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-453j-biomedical-information-technology-fall-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:C. Forbes Dewey, Jr.,  Hanry Yu,  Sourav Saha Bhowmick term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course teaches the design of contemporary information systems for biological and medical data. Examples are chosen from biology and medicine to illustrate complete life cycle information systems, beginning with data acquisition, following to data storage and finally to retrieval and analysis. Design of appropriate databases, client-server strategies, data interchange protocols, and computational modeling architectures. Students are expected to have some familiarity with scientific application software and a basic understanding of at least one contemporary programming language (e.g. C, C++, Java, Lisp, Perl, Python). A major term project is required of all students. This subject is open to motivated seniors having a strong interest in biomedical engineering and information system design with the ability to carry out a significant independent project.This course was offered as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) program as course number SMA 5304.
2.782J | Design of Medical Devices and Implants | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-782j-design-of-medical-devices-and-implants-spring-2006 | textbook:TORA =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This design course targets the solution of clinical problems by use of implants and other medical devices. Topics include the systematic use of cell-matrix control volumes; the role of stress analysis in the design process; anatomic fit, shape and size of implants; selection of biomaterials; instrumentation for surgical implantation procedures; preclinical testing for safety and efficacy, including risk/benefit ratio assessment evaluation of clinical performance and design of clinical trials. Student project materials are drawn from orthopedic devices, soft tissue implants, artificial organs, and dental implants.
2.79J | Biomaterials-Tissue Interactions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-441j-biomaterials-tissue-interactions-fall-2009 | textbook:[TORA] =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:Darnell, J. E., H. F. Lodish, and D. Baltimore. "Laminin, Fibronectin and Other Multiadhesive Matrix Glycoproteins." Chapter 23.4 in Molecular Cell Biology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman, 1990, pp. 920-924. textbook:Ratner, B. D. "Surface Properties of Biomaterials." In Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 21-35. textbook:Andrade, J. D., ed. Excerpts from "Principles of Protein Adsorption." Chapter 1 in Surface and Interfacial Aspects of Biomedical Polymers, Vol. 2. Protein Adsorption. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1985. textbook:Spector, M., and P. A. Lalor. "In Vivo Assessment of Tissue Compatibility." Chapter 5.3 in Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner, et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 220-228. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers the principles of materials science and cell biology underlying the design of medical implants, artificial organs, and matrices for tissue engineering. Methods for biomaterials surface characterization and analysis of protein adsorption on biomaterials. Molecular and cellular interactions with biomaterials are analyzed in terms of unit cell processes, such as matrix synthesis, degradation, and contraction. Mechanisms underlying wound healing and tissue remodeling following implantation in various organs. Tissue and organ regeneration. Design of implants and prostheses based on control of biomaterials-tissue interactions. Comparative analysis of intact, biodegradable, and bioreplaceable implants by reference to case studies. Criteria for restoration of physiological function for tissues and organs.
2.798J | Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics (BE.410J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-410j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-be-410j-spring-2003 | textbook:Daune, Michel. Chapter 2 in Molecular Biophysics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Dill, K. A., and S. Bromberg. Chapters 6, 8 and 10 in Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Boal, David H. Chapter 2 in Mechanics of the Cell. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Howard, Johnathon. Chapters 5 and 10 in Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Ward, J. P. Solid Mechanics. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Lodish, H., et. al. Molecular Cell Biology. 3rd. ed. New York, NY: Scientific American Books/W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Malvern, Lawrence E. Chapter 6 in Introduction to the Mechanics of a Continuous Medium. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1969, pp. 278-282. textbook:Fung, Y. C. Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:Ferry, J. D. "The Nature of Viscoelastic Behavior." Chapter 1 in Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. level:Graduate instructors:Roger D. Kamm,  Patrick Doyle,  Maxine Jonas<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales. Topics include: structure of tissues and the molecular basis for macroscopic properties; chemical and electrical effects on mechanical behavior; cell mechanics, motility and adhesion; biomembranes; biomolecular mechanics and molecular motors. Experimental methods for probing structures at the tissue, cellular, and molecular levels will also be investigated.This course was originally co-developed by Professors Alan Grodzinsky, Roger Kamm, and L. Mahadevan.
MAS.857J | Optical Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-717j-optical-engineering-spring-2002 | textbook:G =  Goodman, Joseph W. Statistical Optics. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Interscience, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:George Barbastathis term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course concerns the theory and practice of optical methods in engineering and system design, with an emphasis on diffraction, statistical optics, holography, and imaging. It provides the engineering methodology skills necessary to incorporate optical components in systems serving diverse areas such as precision engineering and metrology, bio-imaging, and computing (sensors, data storage, communication in multi-processor systems). Experimental demonstrations and a design project are included.
22.00J | Introduction to Modeling and Simulation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-021j-introduction-to-modeling-and-simulation-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Markus Buehler,  Jeffrey Grossman term:Spring 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject provides an introduction to modeling and simulation, covering continuum methods, atomistic and molecular simulation, and quantum mechanics. Hands-on training is provided in the fundamentals and applications of these methods to key engineering problems. The lectures provide exposure to areas of application based on the scientific exploitation of the power of computation. We use web based applets for simulations, thus extensive programming skills are not required.
22.55J | Principles of Radiation Interactions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-55j-principles-of-radiation-interactions-fall-2004 | textbook:The chapters in the table below are from: Hall, Eric J. Radiobiology for the Radiologist. 5th ed. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Jeffrey Coderre term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The central theme of this course is the interaction of radiation with biological material. The course is intended to provide a broad understanding of how different types of radiation deposit energy, including the creation and behavior of secondary radiations; of how radiation affects cells and why the different types of radiation have very different biological effects. Topics will include: the effects of radiation on biological systems including DNA damage; in vitro cell survival models; and in vivo mammalian systems. The course covers radiation therapy, radiation syndromes in humans and carcinogenesis. Environmental radiation sources on earth and in space, and aspects of radiation protection are also discussed. Examples from the current literature will be used to supplement lecture material.
22.56J | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-56j-noninvasive-imaging-in-biology-and-medicine-fall-2005 | textbook:Bushberg, Jerrold T., J. Anthony Seibert, Edwin M. Leidholdt, Jr., and John M. Boone. The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. textbook:Cho, Z. H., Joie P. Jones, and Manbir Singh. Foundations of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1993. textbook:Phelps, Michael E. PET: Molecular Imaging and Its Biological Applications. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff term:Fall 2005 features: description:22.56J aims to give graduate students and advanced undergraduates background in the theory and application of noninvasive imaging methods to biology and medicine, with emphasis on neuroimaging. The course focuses on the modalities most frequently used in scientific research (X-ray CT, PET/SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging), and includes discussion of molecular imaging approaches used in conjunction with these scanning methods. Lectures by the professor will be supplemented by in-class discussions of problems in research, and hands-on demonstrations of imaging systems.
22.561J | Magnetic Resonance Analytic, Biochemical, and Imaging Techniques | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-584j-magnetic-resonance-analytic-biochemical-and-imaging-techniques-spring-2006 | textbook:Bernstein, Matt A., Kevin F. King, and Xiaohong Joe Zhou. Handbook of MRI Pulse Sequences. Boston, MA: Academic Press, 2004. textbook:Hore, P. J. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Hore, P. J., J. A. Jones, and S. Wimperis. NMR: The Toolkit. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Abragam, A. The Principles of Nuclear Magnetism. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1983. textbook:Slichter, C. P. Principles of Magnetic Resonance. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1992. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Rosen,  Lawrence Wald term:Spring 2006 features:Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is an introduction to basic NMR theory. Examples of biochemical data obtained using NMR are summarized along with other related experiments. Students participate in detailed study of NMR imaging techniques, including discussions of basic cross-sectional image reconstruction, image contrast, flow and real-time imaging, and hardware design considerations. Exposure to laboratory NMR spectroscopic and imaging equipment is included.
8.261J | Introduction to Computational Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-29j-introduction-to-computational-neuroscience-spring-2004 | textbook:Dayan, Peter, and L. F. Abbott.Theoretical Neuroscience: Computational and Mathematical Modeling of Neural Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sebastian Seung term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course gives a mathematical introduction to neural coding and dynamics. Topics include convolution, correlation, linear systems, game theory, signal detection theory, probability theory, information theory, and reinforcement learning. Applications to neural coding, focusing on the visual system are covered, as well as Hodgkin-Huxley and other related models of neural excitability, stochastic models of ion channels, cable theory, and models of synaptic transmission. Visit the Seung Lab Web site.
8.395J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
8.591J | Systems Biology		 (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2014 | textbook:[UA] =  Alon, U. An Introduction to Systems Biology: Design Principles of Biological Circuits. Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2006. textbook:[MN] =  Nowak, M. A. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Belknap Press, 2006. textbook:[BA] =  Alberts, B., et al. Essential Cell Biology. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 2009. textbook:[SS] =  Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Westview Press, 2014. textbook:Edelstein-Keshet, L. Sections 6.2, 6.6, and 6.7 in Mathematical Models in Biology. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an introduction to cellular and population-level systems biology with an emphasis on synthetic biology, modeling of genetic networks, cell-cell interactions, and evolutionary dynamics. Cellular systems include genetic switches and oscillators, network motifs, genetic network evolution, and cellular decision-making. Population-level systems include models of pattern formation, cell-cell communication, and evolutionary systems biology.
8.591J | Systems Biology		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:The following sections from  Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York: Garland Science, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Alexander van Oudenaarden term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course introduces the mathematical modeling techniques needed to address key questions in modern biology. An overview of modeling techniques in molecular biology and genetics, cell biology and developmental biology is covered. Key experiments that validate mathematical models are also discussed, as well as molecular, cellular, and developmental systems biology, bacterial chemotaxis, genetic oscillators, control theory and genetic networks, and gradient sensing systems. Additional specific topics include: constructing and modeling of genetic networks, lambda phage as a genetic switch, synthetic genetic switches, circadian rhythms, reaction diffusion equations, local activation and global inhibition models, center finding networks, general pattern formation models, modeling cell-cell communication, quorum sensing, and finally, models for Drosophila development.
8.592J | Statistical Physics in Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-592j-statistical-physics-in-biology-spring-2011 | textbook:Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 1994. textbook:Durbin, Richard, et al. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids. Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Frank-Kamenetskii, Maxim D. Unraveling DNA: The Most Important Molecule of Life. Translated by Lev Liapin. Basic Books, 1997. textbook:Watson, James D., et al. Molecular Biology of the Gene. 5th ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 2003. textbook:Nelson, Philip. Biological Physics: Energy, Information, Life. W. H. Freeman, 2003. textbook:Phillips, Rob, Jane Kondev, et al. Physical Biology of the Cell. Garland Science, 2008. textbook:Howard, Jonathan. Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Finkelstein, Alexei V., and Oleg B. Ptitsyn. Protein Physics: A Course of Lectures. Academic Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Mehran Kardar,  Leonid Mirny term:Spring 2011 features:This Course at MIT description:Statistical Physics in Biology is a survey of problems at the interface of statistical physics and modern biology. Topics include: bioinformatic methods for extracting information content of DNA; gene finding, sequence comparison, and phylogenetic trees; physical interactions responsible for structure of biopolymers; DNA double helix, secondary structure of RNA, and elements of protein folding; considerations of force, motion, and packaging; protein motors, membranes. We also look at collective behavior of biological elements, cellular networks, neural networks, and evolution.
8.594J | Introduction to Neural Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-641j-introduction-to-neural-networks-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Sebastian Seung term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course explores the organization of synaptic connectivity as the basis of neural computation and learning. Perceptrons and dynamical theories of recurrent networks including amplifiers, attractors, and hybrid computation are covered. Additional topics include backpropagation and Hebbian learning, as well as models of perception, motor control, memory, and neural development.
STS.005 | Disease and Society in America | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/science-technology-and-society/sts-005-disease-and-society-in-america-fall-2005 | textbook:Rosenberg, Charles. The Cholera Years. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1968 , 1987. textbook:Ulrich, Laurel Thatcher. A Midwife's Tale. New York, NY: Knopf, 1990. textbook:Starr, Paul. The Social Transformation of American Medicine. New York, NY: Basic Books, 1984. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Jones term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course examines the growing importance of medicine in culture, economics and politics. It uses an historical approach to examine the changing patterns of disease, the causes of morbidity and mortality, the evolution of medical theory and practice, the development of hospitals and the medical profession, the rise of the biomedical research industry, and the ethics of health care in America.
STS.006J | Bioethics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-06j-bioethics-spring-2009 | textbook:Lock, Margaret. "Technology in Extremis." In Twice Dead: Organ Transplants and the Reinvention of Death. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2001, pp. 57-75. textbook:Kaufman, Sharon. "Life Support." Chapter 7 in And a Time to Die: How American Hospitals Shape the End of Life. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 2006. textbook:Oaks, Laury. "The New Rules of Pregnancy." Chapter 2 in Smoking and Pregnancy: The Politics of Fetal Protection. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press, 2001. textbook:Kevles, Daniel J. "International Eugenics." In Deadly Medicine: Creating the Master Race. Edited by Dieter Kuntz and Susan Bachrach. Chapel Hill, NC: The University of North Carolina Press, 2006. textbook:Elliot, Carl. Better Than Well: American Medicine Meets the American Dream. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 2003. textbook:Sandel, Michael J. "Bionic Athletes." Chapter 2 in The Case Against Perfection: Ethics in the Age of Genetic Engineering. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 2009. textbook:Ubel, Peter A. "The Necessity of Rationing Health Care." In Contemporary Issues in Bioethics. 7th ed. Edited by Tom L. Beauchamp, LeRoy Walters, Jeffrey P. Kahn, and Anna C. Mastroianni. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth Publishing, 2007. level:Undergraduate instructors:Caspar Hare,  David Jones term:Spring 2009 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course does not seek to provide answers to ethical questions. Instead, the course hopes to teach students two things. First, how do you recognize ethical or moral problems in science and medicine? When something does not feel right (whether cloning, or failing to clone) &mdash; what exactly is the nature of the discomfort? What kind of tensions and conflicts exist within biomedicine? Second, how can you think productively about ethical and moral problems? What processes create them? Why do people disagree about them? How can an understanding of philosophy or history help resolve them? By the end of the course students will hopefully have sophisticated and nuanced ideas about problems in bioethics, even if they do not have comfortable answers.
STS.010 | Neuroscience and Society | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/science-technology-and-society/sts-010-neuroscience-and-society-spring-2010 | textbook:Harrington, Anne. "The Brain and the Behavioral Sciences." In The Cambridge History of Science: Vol. 6, The Modern Biological and Earth Sciences. Edited by Peter J. Bowler and John V. Pickstone. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2009. textbook:Gould, Stephen Jay. "Measuring Heads: Paul Broca and the Heyday of Craniology." Chapter 3 in The Mismeasure of Man. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 1996. textbook:Dumit, Joseph. "Travelling Images, Popularizing Brains." Introduction and chapter 5, in Picturing Personhood: Brain Scans and Biomedical Identity. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2004. textbook:Montague, Read. Chapter 1 in Your Brain is (Almost) Perfect: How We Make Decisions. New York, NY: Plume/Penguin Group, 2007. textbook:Iacoboni, Marco. "Neuropolitics." Chapter 10 in Mirroring People: The New Science of How We Connect with Others. New York, NY: Farrar, Straus, Giroux, 2008. textbook:Ramachandran, V. S., and Sandra Blakeslee. "God and the Limbic System." Chapter 9 in Phantoms in the Brain: Probing the Mysteries of the Human Mind. New York, NY: Harper Perennial, 1999. textbook:Brizendine, Louann. "Love and Trust." Chapter 3 in The Female Brain. New York, NY: Broadway Books/Random House, 2007. textbook:Fausto-Sterling, Anne. "Sexing the Brain: How Biologists Make A Difference." Chapter 5 in Sexing the Body: Gender Politics and the Construction of Sexuality. New York, NY: Basic Books, 2000. textbook:Brizendine, Louann. "What Makes Us Women," and "The Birth of the Female Brain." Introduction and Chapter 1 in The Female Brain. New York, NY: Broadway Books/Random House, 2007. textbook:Restak, Richard M. D. "Attention Deficit: The Brain Syndrome of Our Era." Chapter 3 in The New Brain. Emmaus, PA: Rodale Books, 2004. textbook:Harrington, Anne. "Broken by Modern Life." Chapter 4 in The Cure Within: A History of Mind-Body Medicine. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 2009. textbook:Gould, Stephen Jay. "Measuring Bodies: Two Case Studies on the Apishness of Undesirables." Chapter 4 in The Mismeasure of Man. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 1996. textbook:Lombroso, Cesare. Criminal Man. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2006, pp. 1-26, 63-69, and 198-205. textbook:Dumit, Joseph. "Ways of Seeing Brains as Expert Images." Chapter 4 in Picturing Personhood: Brain Scans and Biomedical Identity. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2004. textbook:Valenstein, Elliot S. Great and Desperate Cures. Chapters 9 and 13. New York, NY: Basic Books, 1986. textbook:Kramer, Peter D. Listening to Prozac. Introduction and chapter 1. New York, NY: Penguin Books, 1997. textbook:Elliott, Carl. Better than Well: American Medicine Meets the American Dream. New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company, 2004, pp. XV-XXI, 51-53, and 119-128. textbook:Montague, Read. "How Neurons Generate Preference." Chapter 7 in Your Brain is (Almost) Perfect: How We Make Decisions. New York, NY: A Plume Book/Penguin Group, 2007. textbook:Rose, Steven. "The Promise and the Threat," and "Ethics in a Neurocentric World." Chapters 1 and 12 in The Future of the Brain: The Promise and Perils of Tomorrow's Neuroscience. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Natasha Schüll term:Spring 2010 features:Assignments and solutions description:This course explores the social relevance of neuroscience, considering how emerging areas of brain research at once reflect and reshape social attitudes and agendas. Topics include brain imaging and popular media; neuroscience of empathy, trust, and moral reasoning; new fields of neuroeconomics and neuromarketing; ethical implications of neurotechnologies such as cognitive enhancement pharmaceuticals; neuroscience in the courtroom; and neuroscientific recasting of social problems such as addiction and violence. Guest lectures by neuroscientists, class discussion, and weekly readings in neuroscience, popular media, and science studies.
STS.449J | Introduction to Global Medicine: Bioscience, Technologies, Disparities, Strategies | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-934j-introduction-to-global-medicine-bioscience-technologies-disparities-strategies-spring-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Michael M.J. Fischer,  Byron Good,  Mary-Jo DelVecchio Good,  David Jones term:Spring 2010 features: description:This class provides a space for medical students and MD/PhD students, as well as HASTS (History, Anthropology, Science, Technology, and Society) PhD students to discuss social and ethical issues in the biosciences and biotechnologies as they are being developed. Discussions are with course faculty and with leading figures in developing technologies such as George Daley or George Church in stem cell or genomics research, Bruce Walker or Pardis Sabeti in setting up laboratories in Africa, Paul Farmer and Partners in Health colleagues in building local support systems and first world quality care in Haiti, Peru, and Rwanda, and Amy Farber in building patient-centered therapeutic-outcome research for critical but "orphan" diseases. Goals include stimulating students to think about applying their learning in Boston to countries around the world, including using the experiences they have had in their home countries or research experience abroad. Goals also include a mix of patient-doctor care perspectives from medical anthropology, and moving upstream in the research chain to questions of how to move discoveries from basic research through the pipelines into clinical and bedside care.
STS.449J | Social Studies of Bioscience and Biotech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-930j-social-studies-of-bioscience-and-biotech-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Byron Good,  Mary-Jo DelVecchio Good,  Michael M.J. Fischer term:Fall 2005 features: description:In this course, social, ethical and clinical issues associated with the development of new biotechnologies and their integration into clinical practice is discussed. Basic scientists, clinicians, bioethicists, and social scientists present on the following four general topics: changing political economy of biotech research; problems associated with the adaption of new biotechnologies and findings from molecular biology for clinical settings; the ethical issues that emerge from clinical research and clinical use of new technologies; and the broader social ethics of access and inequality.
11.122 | Environment and Society | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/urban-studies-and-planning/11-122-environment-and-society-fall-2002 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dara O’Rourke term:Fall 2002 features: description:Modern industrial activities - which MIT engineers and scientists play a major role in - have significant environmental and social impacts. Trends towards further industrialization and globalization portend major challenges for society to manage the adverse impacts of our urban and industrial activities. How serious are current environmental and social problems? Why should we care about them? How are governments, corporations, activists, and ordinary citizens responding to these problems.This course examines environmental and social impacts of industrial society and policy responses. We will explore current trends in industrialization, urbanization, and globalization, analyze the impacts these trends have on human health, environmental sustainability, and equity, and then examine a range of policy options available for responding to current problems. The course will present key trends in both domestic and international contexts.We will examine four policy problems in particular during the course: (1) regulating industrial pollution; (2) regulating "sweatshops" and the broader impacts of globalization; (3) protecting ecosystems; and (4) protecting urban environments during development. We delve into specific cases of these challenges, including: chemical safety and toxins; computers, e-commerce, and the environment; biotech and society; sweatshops; and food production and consumption. Through these cases, we will explore underlying processes and drivers of environmental degradation. Finally, we will analyze opportunities and barriers to policy responses taken by governments, international institutions, corporations, non-governmental organizations, consumers, and impacted communities.Objectives and AimsAn understanding of the complexity of environmental and social impacts of industry;An ability to critically analyze policy responses;An understanding of the roles of different actors and institutions in environmental and social controversies;Means to evaluate institutional barriers to environmental and social policies;New ideas for better integrating industry, environment, and equity;New strategies for regulation in the global economy;An understanding about personal responsibilities and roles in environmental and social problems.
