mit-media-opera-of-the-future-1 | Ambisonic Surround-Sound Audio Compression | http://media.mit.edu/~holbrow/thesisPresentation/ | description:Tod Machover and Charles Holbrow Traditional music production and studio engineering depends on dynamic range compression—audio signal processors that precisely and dynamically control the gain of an audio signal in the time domain. This project expands on the traditional dynamic range compression model by adding a spatial dimension. Ambisonic Compression allows audio engineers to dynamically control the spatial properties of a three-dimensional sound field, opening new possibilities for surround-sound design and spatial music performance. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-2 | City Symphonies: Massive Musical Collaboration | http://opera.media.mit.edu/projects/toronto/ | description:Tod Machover, Akito Van Troyer, Benjamin Bloomberg, Charles Holbrow, David Nunez, Simone Ovsey, Sarah Platte, Bryn Bliska, Rébecca Kleinberger, Peter Alexander Torpey and Garrett Parrish Until now, the impact of crowdsourced and interactive music projects has been limited: the public contributes a small part of the final result, and is often disconnected from the artist leading the project. We believe that a new musical ecology is needed for true creative collaboration between experts and amateurs. Toward this goal, we have been creating "city symphonies," each collaboratively composed with an entire city. We have designed the infrastructure needed to bring together an unprecedented number of people, including a variety of web-based music composition applications, a social media framework, and real-world community-building activities. We premiered city symphonies in Toronto, Edinburgh, and Perth, and are now developing symphonies with Lucerne, Switzerland and—with the support of the Knight foundation—Detroit, Michigan, our first US city. We are also working on scaling this process by mentoring independent groups, beginning with the city of Akron, Ohio. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-3 | Death and the Powers: Global Interactive Simulcast | http://powers.media.mit.edu/ | description:Tod Machover, Peter Torpey, Ben Bloomberg, Elena Jessop, Charles Holbrow, Simone Ovsey, Garrett Parrish, Justin Martinez, and Kevin Nattinger The live global interactive simulcast of the final February 2014 performance of "Death and the Powers" in Dallas made innovative use of satellite broadcast and Internet technologies to expand the boundaries of second-screen experience and interactivity during a live remote performance. In the opera, Simon Powers uploads his mind, memories, and emotions into The System, represented onstage through reactive robotic, visual, and sonic elements. Remote audiences, via simulcast, were treated as part of The System alongside Powers and the operabots. Audiences had an omniscient view of the action of the opera, as presented through the augmented, multi-camera video and surround sound. Multimedia content delivered to mobile devices, through the Powers Live app, privileged remote audiences with perspectives from within The System. Mobile devices also allowed audiences to influence The System by affecting the illumination of the Winspear Opera House's Moody Foundation Chandelier. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-4 | Death and the Powers: Redefining Opera | http://powers.media.mit.edu/ | description:Tod Machover, Ben Bloomberg, Peter Torpey, Elena Jessop, Bob Hsiung, Akito van Troyer "Death and the Powers" is a groundbreaking opera that brings a variety of technological, conceptual, and aesthetic innovations to the theatrical world. Created by Tod Machover (composer), Diane Paulus (director), and Alex McDowell (production designer), the opera uses the techniques of tomorrow to address age-old human concerns of life and legacy. The unique performance environment, including autonomous robots, expressive scenery, new Hyperinstruments, and human actors, blurs the line between animate and inanimate. The opera premiered in Monte Carlo in fall 2010, with additional performances in Boston and Chicago in 2011 and a new production with a global, interactive simulcast in Dallas in February 2014. The DVD of the Dallas performance of Powers was released in April 2015. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-5 | Empathy and the Future of Experience | http://exp.media.mit.edu/ | description:Tod Machover, Akito Van Troyer, Benjamin Bloomberg, Bryn Bliska, Charles Holbrow, David Nunez, Rébecca Kleinberger, Simone Ovsey, Sarah Platte, Peter Torpey, Kelly Donovan, Meejin Yoon and the Empathy and Experience class Nothing is more important in today’s troubled world as the process of eliminating prejudice and misunderstanding, and replacing them with communication and empathy. We explore the possibility of creating public experiences to dramatically increase individual and community awareness of the power of empathy on an unprecedented scale. We draw on numerous precedents from the Opera of the Future group that have proposed concepts and technologies to inspire and intensify human connectedness (such as Sleep No More, Death and the Powers, Vocal Vibrations, City Symphonies, and Hyperinstruments) and from worldwide instances of transformative shared human experience (such as the Overview Effect, Human Libraries, Immersive Theatre, and non-sectarian spiritual traditions). The objective is to create a model of a multisensory, participatory, spatially radical installation that will break down barriers between people of immensely different backgrounds, providing instantaneous understanding of—as well as long-term commitment to—empathic communication. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-6 | Hi-Lo Conductor | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-opera-of-the-future-6 Hi-Lo Conductor | description:Tod Machover, Sarah Platte and David Nunez We designed a system in which a novice, with limited musical background, can perform alongside an experienced conductor to create an interpretation of a classical piece of music. A practiced conductor will use precise, nuanced movements to drive tempo and articulation of the performance, while the novice uses a more intuitive gestural vocabulary to change the expressive properties of solo instrumentation. Using readily available and inexpensive technology, we can capture and decode both experienced and novice gestures to establish a unique kind of musical collaboration.
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-7 | Hyperinstruments | http://www.media.mit.edu/hyperins/ | description:Tod Machover The Hyperinstruments project creates expanded musical instruments and uses technology to give extra power and finesse to virtuosic performers. They were designed to augment a wide range of traditional musical instruments and have been used by some of the world's foremost performers (Yo-Yo Ma, the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Peter Gabriel, and Penn & Teller). Research focuses on designing computer systems that measure and interpret human expression and feeling, exploring appropriate modalities and content of interactive art and entertainment environments, and building sophisticated interactive musical instruments for non-professional musicians, students, music lovers, and the general public. Recent projects involve the production a new version of the "classic" Hyperstring Trilogy for the Lucerne Festival, and the design of a new generation of Hyperinstruments, for Fensadense and other projects, that emphasizes measurement and interpretation of inter-player expression and communication, rather than simply the enhancement of solo performance. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-8 | Hyperproduction: Advanced Production Systems | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-opera-of-the-future-8 Hyperproduction: Advanced Production Systems | description:Tod Machover and Benjamin Bloomberg Hyperproduction is a conceptual framework and a software toolkit that allows producers to specify a descriptive computational model and consequently an abstract state for a live experience through traditional operating paradigms, such as mixing audio or operation of lighting, sound, and video systems. The hyperproduction system is able to interpret this universal state and automatically utilize additional production systems, allowing for a small number of producers to cohesively guide the attention and perspective of an audience using many or very complex production systems simultaneously. We focus on exploring the relationship of conventional production systems and techniques to computational abstract models of live performance, with attention and perspective as the cornerstones of this exploration.
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-9 | Hyperscore | http://www.media.mit.edu/~mary/hyperscore | description:Tod Machover Hyperscore is an application to introduce children and non-musicians to musical composition and creativity in an intuitive and dynamic way. The "narrative" of a composition is expressed as a line-gesture, and the texture and shape of this line are analyzed to derive a pattern of tension-release, simplicity-complexity, and variable harmonization. The child creates or selects individual musical fragments in the form of chords or melodic motives, and layers them onto the narrative-line with expressive brushstokes. The Hyperscore system automatically realizes a full composition from a graphical representation. Currently, Hyperscore uses a mouse-based interface; the final version will support freehand drawing, and integration with the Music Shapers and Beatbugs to provide a rich array of tactile tools for manipulation of the graphical score. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-10 | Media Scores | http://opera.media.mit.edu/projects/media_scores/ | description:Tod Machover and Peter Torpey Media Scores extends the concept of a musical score to other modalities, facilitating the process of authoring and performing multimedia compositions and providing a medium through which to realize a modern-day Gesamtkunstwerk. The web-based Media Scores environment and related show control systems leverage research into multimodal representation and encoding of expressive intent. Using such a tool, the composer will be able to shape an artistic work that may be performed through a variety of media and modalities. Media Scores offer the potential for authoring content using live performance data as well as audience participation and interaction. This paradigm bridges the extremes of the continuum from composition to performance, allowing for improvisation. The Media Score also provides a common point of reference in collaborative productions, as well as the infrastructure for real-time control of technologies used during live performance. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-11 | Remote Theatrical Immersion: Extending "Sleep No More" | http://opera.media.mit.edu/projects/sleep_no_more/ | description:Tod Machover, Punchdrunk, Akito Van Troyer, Ben Bloomberg, Gershon Dublon, Jason Haas, Elena Jessop, Brian Mayton, Eyal Shahar, Jie Qi, Nicholas Joliat, and Peter Torpey We have collaborated with London-based theater group Punchdrunk to create an online platform connected to their NYC show, Sleep No More. In the live show, masked audience members explore and interact with a rich environment, discovering their own narrative pathways. We have developed an online companion world to this real-life experience, through which online participants partner with live audience members to explore the interactive, immersive show together. Pushing the current capabilities of web standards and wireless communications technologies, the system delivers personalized multimedia content, allowing each online participant to have a unique experience co-created in real time by his own actions and those of his onsite partner. This project explores original ways of fostering meaningful relationships between online and onsite audience members, enhancing the experiences of both through the affordances that exist only at the intersection of the real and the virtual worlds. view site
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-12 | Using the Voice As a Tool for Self-Reflection | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=mit-media-opera-of-the-future-12 Using the Voice As a Tool for Self-Reflection | description:Special Interest group(s):  Advancing Wellbeing Tod Machover and Rebecca Kleinberger Our voice is an important part of our individuality. From the voices of others, we understand a wealth of non-linguistic information, such as identity, social-cultural clues, and emotional state. But the relationship we have with our own voice is less obvious. We don't hear it the way others do, and our brain treats it differently from any other sound. Yet its sonority is deeply connected with how we are perceived by society and how we see ourselves—body and mind. This project is composed of software, devices, installations, and thoughts used to challenge us to gain new insights on our voices. To increase self-awareness, we propose different ways to extend, project, and visualize the voice. We show how our voices sometimes escape our control, and we explore the consequences in terms of self-reflection, cognitive processes, therapy, affective features visualization, and communication improvement.
mit-media-opera-of-the-future-13 | Vocal Vibrations: Expressive Performance for Body-Mind Wellbeing | http://opera.media.mit.edu/projects/vv/ | description:Special Interest group(s):  Advancing Wellbeing Tod Machover, Charles Holbrow, Elena Jessop, Rebecca Kleinberger, Le Laboratoire, and the Dalai Lama Center at MIT Vocal Vibrations explores relationships between human physiology and the vibrations of the voice. The voice is an expressive instrument that everyone possesses and that is intimately linked to the physical form. In collaboration with Le Laboratoire and the MIT Dalai Lama Center, we examine the hypothesis that voices can influence mental and physical health through physicophysiological phenomena. The first Vocal Vibrations installation premiered in Paris, France, in March 2014. The public "Chapel" space of the installation encouraged careful meditative listening. A private "Cocoon" environment guided an individual to explore his/her voice, augmented by tactile and acoustic stimuli. Vocal Vibrations then had a successful showing as the inaugural installation at the new Le Laboratoire Cambridge from November 2014 through March 2015. The installation will be combined with a "scent exhibition," scheduled to open in May, 2015. The installation is expected to travel to Buenos Aires and other destinations worldwide. view site
