CS101 | Introduction to Computing Principles | http://cs101.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Parlante description:Introduces the essential ideas of computing: data representation, algorithms, programming "code", computer hardware, networking, security, and social issues. Students learn how computers work and what they can do through hands-on exercises. In particular, students will see the capabilities and weaknesses of computer systems so they are not mysterious or intimidating. Course features many small programming exercises, although no prior programming experience is assumed or required. CS101 is not a complete programming course such as CS106A. CS101 is effectively an alternative to CS105. A laptop computer is recommended for the in-class exercises.
CS102 | Big Data: Tools & Techniques, Discoveries & Pitfal | http://cs102.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Widom description:Aimed primarily at students who may not major in CS but want to learn about big data and apply that knowledge in their areas of study. Many of the world's biggest discoveries and decisions in science, technology, business, medicine, politics, and society as a whole, are now being made on the basis of analyzing massive data sets, but it is surprisingly easy to come to false conclusions from data analysis alone, and privacy of data connected to individuals can be a major concern. This course provides a broad introduction to big data: historical context and case studies; privacy issues; data analysis techniques including databases, data mining, and machine learning; sampling and statistical significance; data analysis tools including spreadsheets, SQL, Python, R; data visualization techniques and tools. Tools and techniques are hands-on but at a cursory level, providing a basis for future exploration and application. Prerequisites: high school AP computer science, CS106A, or other equivalent programming experience; comfort with statistics and spreadsheets helpful but not required.
CS103 | Mathematical Foundations of Computing | http://cs103.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Schwarz description:Mathematical foundations required for computer science, including propositional predicate logic, induction, sets, functions, and relations. Formal language theory, including regular expressions, grammars, finite automata, Turing machines, and NP-completeness. Mathematical rigor, proof techniques, and applications. Prerequisite: 106A or equivalent.
CS103A | Mathematical Problem-solving Strategies | http://cs103A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Schwarz description:Problem solving strategies and techniques in discrete mathematics and computer science. Additional problem solving practice for CS103. In-class participation required. Prerequisite: consent of instructor. Co-requisite: CS103.
CS105 | Introduction to Computers | http://cs105.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Young description:For non-technical majors. What computers are and how they work. Practical experience in programming. Construction of computer programs and basic design techniques. A survey of Internet technology and the basics of computer hardware. Students in technical fields and students looking to acquire programming skills should take 106A or 106X. Students with prior computer science experience at the level of 106 or above require consent of instructor. Prerequisite: minimal math skills.
CS106A | Programming Methodology | http://cs106A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Sahami videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/programming-methodology/id495054181 description:Introduction to the engineering of computer applications emphasizing modern software engineering principles: object-oriented design, decomposition, encapsulation, abstraction, and testing. Uses the Java programming language. Emphasis is on good programming style and the built-in facilities of the Java language. No prior programming experience required. Summer quarter enrollment is limited. Priority given to Stanford students.
CS106B | Programming Abstractions | http://cs106B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Stepp videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/programming-abstractions/id495054099 description:Abstraction and its relation to programming. Software engineering principles of data abstraction and modularity. Object-oriented programming, fundamental data structures (such as stacks, queues, sets) and data-directed design. Recursion and recursive data structures (linked lists, trees, graphs). Introduction to time and space complexity analysis. Uses the programming language C++ covering its basic facilities. Prerequisite: 106A or equivalent. Summer quarter enrollment is limited. Priority given to Stanford students.
CS106L | Standard C++ Programming Laboratory | http://cs106L.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Stepp/Cibils description:Supplemental lab to 106B and 106X. Additional features of standard C++ programming practice. Possible topics include advanced C++ language features, standard libraries, STL containers and algorithms, object memory management, operator overloading, and inheritance. Prerequisite: consent of instructor. Corequisite: 106B or 106X.
CS106X | Programming Abstractions (Accelerated) | http://cs106X.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Lee videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/programming-abstractions/id495054099 description:Intensive version of 106B for students with a strong programming background interested in a rigorous treatment of the topics at an accelerated pace. Additional advanced material and more challenging projects. Prerequisite: excellence in 106A or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
CS107 | Computer Organization and Systems | http://cs107.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Zelenski description:Introduction to the fundamental concepts of computer systems. Explores how computer systems execute programs and manipulate data, working from the C programming language down to the microprocessor. Topics covered include: the C programming language, data representation, machine-level code, computer arithmetic, elements of code compilation, memory organization and management, and performance evaluation and optimization. Prerequisites: 106B or X, or consent of instructor.
CS107E | Computer Systems from the Ground Up | http://cs107E.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Hanrahan/Engle description:Introduction to the fundamental concepts of computer systems through bare metal programming on the Raspberry Pi. Explores how five concepts come together in computer systems: hardware, architecture, assembly code, the C language, and software development tools. Students do all programming with a Raspberry Pi kit and several add-ons (LEDs, buttons). Topics covered include: the C programming language, data representation, machine-level code, computer arithmetic, compilation, memory organization and management, debugging, hardware, and I/O. Prerequisite: 106B or X, and consent of instructor.
CS108 | Object-Oriented Systems Design | http://cs108.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Young description:Software design and construction in the context of large OOP libraries. Taught in Java. Topics: OOP design, design patterns, testing, graphical user interface (GUI) OOP libraries, software engineering strategies, approaches to programming in teams. Prerequisite: 107.
CS109 | Intro to Probability for Computer Scientists | http://cs109.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Sahami description:Topics include: counting and combinatorics, random variables, conditional probability, independence, distributions, expectation, point estimation, and limit theorems. Applications of probability in computer science including machine learning and the use of probability in the analysis of algorithms. Prerequisites: 103, 106B or X, multivariate calculus at the level of MATH 51 or CME 100 or equivalent.
CS110 | Principles of Computer Systems | http://cs110.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Cain description:Principles and practice of engineering of computer software and hardware systems. Topics include: techniques for controlling complexity; strong modularity using client-server design, virtual memory, and threads; networks; atomicity and coordination of parallel activities; security, and encryption; and performance optimizations. Prerequisite: 107.
CS123 | Programming Your Personal Robot | http://cs123.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Chang/Zhu description:An introduction to the programming of a sensor-rich personal robot. This course extends programming from the virtual environment into the physical world, which presents unique challenges. Focus is on three areas of intellectual discourse that are fundamental to the programming of physical devices: communication with the devices; programming of event driven behaviors; and reasoning with uncertainty. The concepts introduced will be put into practical use through a series of class projects centered around programming your personal robot. This course also serves as a good introduction to Experimental Robotics by exposing students to basic concepts and techniques that are relevant for real world robot programming. Prerequisite: Basic knowledge of computer programming (as covered in CS 106). Knowledge of Python is recommended.
CS124 | From Languages to Information | http://cs124.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Jurafsky description:Extracting meaning, information, and structure from human language text, speech, web pages, genome sequences, social networks. Methods include: string algorithms, edit distance, language modeling, the noisy channel, naive Bayes, inverted indices, collaborative filtering, PageRank. Applications such as question answering, sentiment analysis, information retrieval, text classification, social network models, machine translation, genomic sequence alignment, spell checking, speech processing, recommender systems. Prerequisite: CS103, CS107, CS109.
CS131 | Computer Vision: Foundations and Applications | http://cs131.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Li/Niebles Duq description:Robots that can navigate space and perform duties, search engines that can index billions of images and videos, algorithms that can diagnose medical images for diseases, or smart cars that can see and drive safely: Lying in the heart of these modern AI applications are computer vision technologies that can perceive, understand and reconstruct the complex visual world. This course is designed for students who are interested in learning about the fundamental principles and important applications of computer vision. Course will introduce a number of fundamental concepts in computer vision and expose students to a number of real-world applications, plus guide students through a series of well designed projects such that they will get to implement cutting-edge computer vision algorithms. Prerequisites: Students should be familiar with Matlab (i.e. have programmed in Matlab before) and Linux; plus Calculus & Linear Algebra.
CS140 | Operating Systems and Systems Programming | http://cs140.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Mazieres description:Operating systems design and implementation. Basic structure; synchronization and communication mechanisms; implementation of processes, process management, scheduling, and protection; memory organization and management, including virtual memory; I/O device management, secondary storage, and file systems. Prerequisite: CS 110.
CS142 | Web Applications | http://cs142.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Rosenblum description:Concepts and techniques used in constructing interactive web applications. Browser-side web facilities such as HTML, cascading stylesheets, javascript, and the document object model. Server-side technologies such as sessions, templates, relational databases, and object-relational mapping. Issues in web security and application scalability. New models of web application deployment. Prerequisites: CS 107 and CS 108.
CS143 | Compilers | http://cs143.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Aiken description:Principles and practices for design and implementation of compilers and interpreters. Topics: lexical analysis; parsing theory; symbol tables; type systems; scope; semantic analysis; intermediate representations; runtime environments; code generation; and basic program analysis and optimization. Students construct a compiler for a simple object-oriented language during course programming projects. Prerequisites: 103 or 103B, and 107.
CS144 | Introduction to Computer Networking | http://cs144.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Levis/McKeown description:Principles and practice. Structure and components of computer networks, packet switching, layered architectures. Applications: web/http, voice-over-IP, p2p file sharing and socket programming. Reliable transport: TCP/IP, reliable transfer, flow control, and congestion control. The network layer: names and addresses, routing. Local area networks: ethernet and switches. Wireless networks and network security. Prerequisite: CS 110.
CS145 | Introduction to Databases | http://cs145.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Re description:The course covers database design and the use of database management systems for applications. It includes extensive coverage of the relational model, relational algebra, and SQL.The course includes database design and relational design principles based on dependencies and normal forms. Many additional key database topics from the design and application-building perspective are also covered: indexes, views, transactions, authorization, integrity constraints, triggers, on-line analytical processing (OLAP), JSON, and emerging NoSQL systems. Class time will include guest speakers from industry and additional advanced topics as time and class interest permits. Prerequisites: 103 and 107 (or equivalent).
CS147 | Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction Design | http://cs147.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Landay description:Introduces fundamental methods and principles for designing, implementing, and evaluating user interfaces. Topics: user-centered design, rapid prototyping, experimentation, direct manipulation, cognitive principles, visual design, social software, software tools. Learn by doing: work with a team on a quarter-long design project, supported by lectures, readings, and studios. Prerequisite: 106B or X or equivalent programming experience.
CS148 | Introduction to Computer Graphics and Imaging | http://cs148.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Fedkiw description:Introductory prerequisite course in the computer graphics sequence introducing students to the technical concepts behind creating synthetic computer generated images. Focuses on using OpenGL to create visual imagery, as well as an understanding of the underlying mathematical concepts including triangles, normals, interpolation, texture mapping, bump mapping, etc. Course will cover fundamental understanding of light and color, as well as how it impacts computer displays and printers. Class will discuss more thoroughly how light interacts with the environment, constructing engineering models such as the BRDF, plus various simplifications into more basic lighting and shading models. Also covers ray tracing technology for creating virtual images, while drawing parallels between ray tracers and real world cameras to illustrate various concepts. Anti-aliasing and acceleration structures are also discussed. The final class mini-project consists of building out a ray tracer to create visually compelling images. Starter codes and code bits will be provided to aid in development, but this class focuses on what you can do with the code as opposed to what the code itself looks like. Therefore grading is weighted toward in person "demos" of the code in action - creativity and the production of impressive visual imagery are highly encouraged. Prerequisites: CS 107, MATH 51.
CS154 | Introduction to Automata and Complexity Theory | http://cs154.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Williams description:This course provides a mathematical introduction to the following questions: What is computation? Given a computational model, what problems can we hope to solve in principle with this model? Besides those solvable in principle, what problems can we hope to efficiently solve? In many cases we can give completely rigorous answers; in other cases, these questions have become major open problems in computer science and mathematics. By the end of this course, students will be able to classify computational problems in terms of their computational complexity (Is the problem regular? Not regular? Decidable? Recognizable? Neither? Solvable in P? NP-complete? PSPACE-complete?, etc.). Students will gain a deeper appreciation for some of the fundamental issues in computing that are independent of trends of technology, such as the Church-Turing Thesis and the P versus NP problem. Prerequisites: CS 103 or 103B.
CS155 | Computer and Network Security | http://cs155.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Boneh/Mitchell description:For seniors and first-year graduate students. Principles of computer systems security. Attack techniques and how to defend against them. Topics include: network attacks and defenses, operating system security, application security (web, apps, databases), malware, privacy, and security for mobile devices. Course projects focus on building reliable code. Prerequisite: 110. Recommended: basic Unix.
CS157 | Logic and Automated Reasoning | http://cs157.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Genesereth description:An elementary exposition from a computational point of view of propositional and predicate logic, axiomatic theories, and theories with equality and induction. Interpretations, models, validity, proof, strategies, and applications. Automated deduction: polarity, skolemization, unification, resolution, equality. Prerequisite: 103 or 103B.
CS161 | Design and Analysis of Algorithms | http://cs161.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Guibas description:Worst and average case analysis. Recurrences and asymptotics. Efficient algorithms for sorting, searching, and selection. Data structures: binary search trees, heaps, hash tables. Algorithm design techniques: divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, greedy algorithms, amortized analysis, randomization. Algorithms for fundamental graph problems: minimum-cost spanning tree, connected components, topological sort, and shortest paths. Possible additional topics: network flow, string searching. Prerequisite: 103 or 103B; 109 or STATS 116.
CS166 | Data Structures | http://cs166.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Schwarz description:Techniques in the design, analysis, and implementation of data structures.  Isometries between data structures (including red/black trees and 2-3-4 trees), amortized analysis (including Fibonacci heaps and splay trees), and randomization (including count-min sketches and dynamic perfect hash tables).  Data structures for integers and strings (including van Emde Boas trees and suffix trees).  Possible additional topics include functional data structures, concurrent data structures, and spatial data structures.  Prerequisites: CS107 and CS161.
CS167 | Readings in Algorithms | http://cs167.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Roughgarden description:Recent research in the design and analysis of algorithms.  Readings cover both classical and emerging topics, such as: computational models for massive data sets; data privacy; dimensionality reduction; exact and approximate algorithms for NP-hard problems; graph algorithms; hashing; online learning; search trees; streaming and sketching.  Students are expected to respond to research papers, deliver an oral presentation, and complete a reading or programming project.  Limited enrollment; preference given to undergraduates. Prerequisites: CS161.
CS168 | The Modern Algorithmic Toolbox | http://cs168.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Roughgarden/Va description:This course will provide a rigorous and hands-on introduction to the central ideas and algorithms that constitute the core of the modern algorithms toolkit. Emphasis will be on understanding the high-level theoretical intuitions and principles underlying the algorithms we discuss, as well as developing a concrete understanding of when and how to implement and apply the algorithms. The course will be structured as a sequence of one-week investigations; each week will introduce one algorithmic idea, and discuss the motivation, theoretical underpinning, and practical applications of that algorithmic idea. Each topic will be accompanied by a mini-project in which students will be guided through a practical application of the ideas of the week. Topics include hashing, dimension reduction and LSH, boosting, linear programming, gradient descent,  sampling and estimation, and an introduction to spectral techniques. Prerequisites: CS107 and CS161, or permission from the instructor.
CS170 | Stanford Laptop Orchestra: Composition, Coding, Pe | http://cs170.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Wang description:Classroom instantiation of the Stanford Laptop Orchestra (SLOrk) which includes public performances. An ensemble of more than 20 humans, laptops, controllers, and special speaker arrays designed to provide each computer-mediated instrument with its sonic identity and presence. Topics and activities include issues of composing for laptop orchestras, instrument design, sound synthesis, programming, and live performance. May be repeated four times for credit.
CS181 | Computers, Ethics and Public Policy | http://cs181.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Lin description:(Formerly 201.) Primarily for majors entering computer-related fields. Ethical and social issues related to the development and use of computer technology. Ethical theory, and social, political, and legal considerations. Scenarios in problem areas: privacy, reliability and risks of complex systems, and responsibility of professionals for applications and consequences of their work. Prerequisite: 106B or X.
CS181W | Computers, Ethics and Public Policy (WIM) | http://cs181W.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Lin description:Writing-intensive version of CS181. Satisfies the WIM requirement for Computer Science, Engineering Physics, STS, and Math/Comp Sci undergraduates.
CS183C | Technology-enabled Blitzscaling | http://cs183C.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Hoffman/Lilly description:We are all familiar with the power of technological innovation to reshape markets and daily lives. But what many overlook is how technology enables a far more rapid scaling of organizations and businesses. This rapid scaling, or 'blitzscaling', confers massive competitive advantage, but requires massive adjustments at every stage of growth. 'Technology-enabled Blitzscaling' examines how technology enables this hyper growth and how technology can help entrepreneurs and organizations manage that growth.
CS183E | Effective Leadership in High-tech | http://cs183E.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Finley/Goldfei description:You will undoubtedly leave Stanford with the technical skills to excel in your first few jobs. But non-technical skills are just as critical to making a difference. This seminar is taught by two industry veterans in engineering leadership and product management. In a small group setting, we will explore how you can be a great individual contributor (communicating with clarity, getting traction for your ideas, resolving conflict, and delivering your best work) and how you can transition into leadership roles (finding leadership opportunities, creating a great team culture, hiring and onboarding new team members). We will end by turning back to your career (picking your first job and negotiating your offer, managing your career changes, building a great network, and succeeding with mentors). Prerequisites: Preference given to seniors and co-terms in Computer Science and related majors.
CS190 | Software Design Studio | http://cs190.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Ousterhout description:This course will teach the art of software design: how to decompose large complex systems into classes that can be implemented and maintained easily. Topics include information hiding, thick classes, API design, managing complexity, and how to write in-code documentation. The class will involve significant system software implementation and will use an iterative approach consisting of implementation, review, and revision. The course will be taught in a studio format with in-class discussions and code reviews in addition to lectures. Prerequisites: CS 140.
CS191 | Senior Project | http://cs191.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Restricted to Computer Science and Computer Systems Engineering students. Group or individual projects under faculty direction. Register using instructor's section number. A project can be either a significant software application or publishable research. Software application projects include substantial programming and modern user-interface technologies and are comparable in scale to shareware programs or commercial applications. Research projects may result in a paper publishable in an academic journal or presentable at a conference. Required public presentation of final application or research results. Prerequisite: Completion of at least 135 units.
CS191W | Writing Intensive Senior Project | http://cs191W.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Restricted to Computer Science and Computer Systems Engineering students. Writing-intensive version of CS191. Register using the section number of an Academic Council member. Prerequisite: Completion of at least 135 units.
CS192 | Programming Service Project | http://cs192.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Restricted to Computer Science students. Appropriate academic credit (without financial support) is given for volunteer computer programming work of public benefit and educational value.
CS193A | Android Programming | http://cs193A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Stepp description:Introduction to building applications for Android platform. Examines key concepts of Android programming: tool chain, application life-cycle, views, controls, intents, designing mobile UIs, networking, threading, and more. Features ten weekly lectures and a series of small programming projects. Phone not required, but a phone makes the projects more engaging. Prerequisites: 106B or Java experience at 106B level. Winter quarter enrollment limited and application required: http://goo.gl/forms/HCV1mRQpa0
CS193C | Client-Side Internet Technologies | http://cs193C.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Young description:Client-side technologies used to create web sites such as sophisticated Web 2.0 interfaces similar to Google maps. XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, document object model (DOM), AJAX, and Flash. Prerequisite: programming experience at the level of 106A.
CS193P | iPhone and iPad Application Programming | http://cs193P.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Hegarty description:Tools and APIs required to build applications for the iPhone and iPad platforms using the iOS SDK. User interface design for mobile devices and unique user interactions using multi-touch technologies. Object-oriented design using model-view-controller paradigm, memory management, Swift programming language. Other topics include: object-oriented database API, animation, mobile device power management, multi-threading, networking and performance considerations. Prerequisites: C language and object-oriented programming experience exceeding 106B or X level. Previous completion of any one of the following is required: CS 107, 108 (preferred) or 110. Recommended: UNIX, graphics, databases.
CS193W | Apple Watch and TV Programming | http://cs193W.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Kassoff description:The technologies behind building Apple Watch and Apple TV applications.  Students must have access to a Macintosh computer. iPhone, Apple Watch, and Apple TV are not required, but recommended. Prerequisite: CS193P
CS194 | Software Project | http://cs194.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Stepp description:Design, specification, coding, and testing of a significant team programming project under faculty supervision. Documentation includes a detailed proposal. Public demonstration of the project at the end of the quarter. Preference given to seniors. May be repeat for credit. Prerequisites: CS 110 and CS 161.
CS194H | User Interface Design Project | http://cs194H.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Landay description:Advanced methods for designing, prototyping, and evaluating user interfaces to computing applications. Novel interface technology, advanced interface design methods, and prototyping tools. Substantial, quarter-long course project that will be presented in a public presentation. Prerequisites: CS 147, or permission of instructor.
CS194W | Software Project (WIM) | http://cs194W.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Stepp description:Restricted to Computer Science and Electrical Engineering undergraduates.  Writing-intensive version of CS194. Preference given to seniors.
CS196 | Computer Consulting | http://cs196.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Smith description:Focus is on Macintosh and Windows operating system maintenance and troubleshooting through hardware and software foundation and concepts. Topics include operating systems, networking, security, troubleshooting methodology with emphasis on Stanford's computing environment. Not a programming course. Prerequisite: 1C or equivalent.
CS198 | Teaching Computer Science | http://cs198.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Sahami/Tran description:Students lead a discussion section of 106A while learning how to teach a programming language at the introductory level. Focus is on teaching skills, techniques, and course specifics. Application and interview required; see http://cs198.stanford.edu.
CS198B | Additional Topics in Teaching Computer Science | http://cs198B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Sahami/Broder description:Students build on the teaching skills developed in CS198. Focus is on techniques used to teach topics covered in CS106B. Prerequisite: successful completion of CS198.
CS199 | Independent Work | http://cs199.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Special study under faculty direction, usually leading to a written report. Letter grade; if not appropriate, enroll in 199P.
CS199P | Independent Work | http://cs199P.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:(Staff)
CS1C | Introduction to Computing at Stanford | http://cs1C.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Smith description:For those with limited experience with computers or who want to learn more about Stanford's computing environment. Topics include: computer maintenance and security, computing resources, Internet privacy, and copyright law. One-hour lecture/demonstration in dormitory clusters prepared and administered weekly by the Resident Computer Consultant (RCC). Final project. Not a programming course.
CS1U | Practical Unix | http://cs1U.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Zelenski/Faulk description:A practical introduction to using the Unix operating system with a focus on Linux command line skills. Class will consist of video tutorials and weekly hands-on lab sections. The time listed on AXESS is for the first week's logistical meeting only. Topics include: grep and regular expressions, ZSH, Vim and Emacs, basic and advanced GDB features, permissions, working with the file system, revision control, Unix utilities, environment customization, and using Python for shell scripts. Topics may be added, given sufficient interest. Course website: http://cs1u.stanford.edu
CS205A | Mathematical Methods for Robotics, Vision & Graph | http://cs205A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:James description:Continuous mathematics background necessary for research in robotics, vision, and graphics. Possible topics: linear algebra; the conjugate gradient method; ordinary and partial differential equations; vector and tensor calculus. Prerequisites: 106B or X; MATH 51; or equivalents.
CS210A | Software Project Experience with Corporate Partner | http://cs210A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Borenstein description:Two-quarter project course. Focus is on real-world software development. Corporate partners seed projects with loosely defined challenges from their R&D labs; students innovate to build their own compelling software solutions. Student teams are treated as start-up companies with a budget and a technical advisory board comprised of instructional staff and corporate liaisons. Teams will typically travel to the corporate headquarters of their collaborating partner, meaning some teams will travel internationally. Open loft classroom format such as found in Silicon Valley software companies. Exposure to: current practices in software engineering; techniques for stimulating innovation; significant development experience with creative freedoms; working in groups; real-world software engineering challenges; public presentation of technical work; creating written descriptions of technical work. Prerequisites: CS 109 and 110.
CS210B | Software Project Experience with Corporate Partner | http://cs210B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Borenstein description:Continuation of CS210A. Focus is on real-world software development. Corporate partners seed projects with loosely defined challenges from their R&D labs; students innovate to build their own compelling software solutions. Student teams are treated as start-up companies with a budget and a technical advisory board comprised of the instructional staff and corporate liaisons. Teams will typically travel to the corporate headquarters of their collaborating partner, meaning some teams will travel internationally. Open loft classroom format such as found in Silicon Valley software companies. Exposure to: current practices in software engineering; techniques for stimulating innovation; significant development experience with creative freedoms; working in groups; real world software engineering challenges; public presentation of technical work; creating written descriptions of technical work. Prerequisites: CS 210A
CS211 | Content Creation in Virtual Reality | http://cs211.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Borenstein description:Students are immersed in a cutting edge virtual reality development environment consisting of both hardware and software elements. Studentsnwill progress from configuring a comprehensive development environment to designing and implementing networked content in VR. The deep development focus is overlaid with a discussion series with leaders in the VR space to provide both breadth and depth to a student¿s understanding of the VR space. Prerequisites: CS 107 or equivalent. A strong software development background is required that includes comfort with C++. Design experience a plus.
CS221 | Artificial Intelligence: Principles & Techniques | http://cs221.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Liang description:Artificial intelligence (AI) has had a huge impact in many areas, including medical diagnosis, speech recognition, robotics, web search, advertising, and scheduling.  This course focuses on the foundational concepts that drive these applications.  In short, AI is the mathematics of making good decisions given incomplete information (hence the need for probability) and limited computation (hence the need for algorithms).  Specific topics include search, constraint satisfaction, game playing, Markov decision processes, graphical models, machine learning, and logic. Prerequisites: CS 103 or CS 103B/X, CS 106B or CS 106X, CS 107, and CS 109 (algorithms, probability, and programming experience).
CS223A | Introduction to Robotics | http://cs223A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Khatib videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/introduction-to-robotics/id495053966 description:Robotics foundations in modeling, design, planning, and control. Class covers relevant results from geometry, kinematics, statics, dynamics, motion planning, and control, providing the basic methodologies and tools in robotics research and applications. Concepts and models are illustrated through physical robot platforms, interactive robot simulations, and video segments relevant to historical research developments or to emerging application areas in the field. Recommended: matrix algebra.
CS224D | Deep Learning for Natural Language Processing | http://cs224D.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Socher description:Deep learning approaches have obtained very high performance across many different natural language processing tasks. In this class, students will learn to understand, implement, train, debug, visualize and potentially invent their own neural network models for a variety of language understanding tasks. The course provides a deep excursion from early models to cutting-edge research. Applications will range across a broad spectrum: from simple tasks like part of speech tagging, over sentiment analysis to question answering and machine translation. The final project will involve implementing a complex neural network model and applying it to a large scale NLP problem. We will introduce a common programming framework for deep learning for the problem sets.Prerequisites: programming abilities (python), linear algebra, Math 21 or equivalent, machine learning background (CS 229 or similar) Recommended: CS 224N, EE364a (convex optimization), CS 231N
CS224N | Natural Language Processing | http://cs224N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Manning description:Methods for processing human language information and the underlying computational properties of natural languages. Syntactic and semantic processing from linguistic and algorithmic perspectives. Focus is on modern quantitative techniques in NLP: using large corpora, statistical models for acquisition, translation, and interpretation; and representative systems. Prerequisites: CS124 or CS121/221.
CS224U | Natural Language Understanding | http://cs224U.Stanford.EDU | instructors:MacCartney/Pot description:Project-oriented class focused on developing systems and algorithms for robust machine understanding of human language.  Draws on theoretical concepts from linguistics, natural language processing, and machine learning.  Topics include lexical semantics, distributed representations of meaning, relation extraction, semantic parsing, sentiment analysis, and dialogue agents, with special lectures on developing projects, presenting research results, and making connections with industry. Prerequisites: one of LINGUIST 180, CS 124, CS 224N, CS224S, or CS221; and logical/semantics such as LINGUIST 130A or B, CS 157, or PHIL150
CS224W | Social and Information Network Analysis | http://cs224W.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Adamic description:(Formerly 322) How do diseases spread? Who are the influencers? How can we predict friends and enemies in a social network? How information flows and mutates as it is passed through networks? Behind each of these questions there is an intricate wiring diagram, a network, that defines the interactions between the components. And we will never understand these questions unless we understand the networks behind them. The course will cover recent research on the structure and analysis of such large social and information networks and on models and algorithms that abstract their basic properties. Class will explore how to practically analyze large-scale network data and how to reason about it through models for network structure and evolution. Topics include methods for link analysis and network community detection, diffusion and information propagation on the web, virus outbreak detection in networks, and connections with work in the social sciences and economics.
CS225A | Experimental Robotics | http://cs225A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Khatib description:Hands-on laboratory course experience in robotic manipulation. Topics include robot kinematics, dynamics, control, compliance, sensor-based collision avoidance, and human-robot interfaces. Second half of class is devoted to final projects using various robotic platforms to build and demonstrate new robot task capabilities. Previous projects include the development of autonomous robot behaviors of drawing, painting, playing air hocket, yoyo, basketball, ping-pong or xylophone. Prerequisites: 223A or equivalent.
CS227B | General Game Playing | http://cs227B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Genesereth description:A general game playing system accepts a formal description of a game to play it without human intervention or algorithms designed for specific games. Hands-on introduction to these systems and artificial intelligence techniques such as knowledge representation, reasoning, learning, and rational behavior. Students create GGP systems to compete with each other and in external competitions. Prerequisite: programming experience. Recommended: 103 or equivalent.
CS228 | Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles and Tec | http://cs228.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Ermon description:Probabilistic graphical modeling languages for representing complex domains, algorithms for reasoning using these representations, and learning these representations from data. Topics include: Bayesian and Markov networks, extensions to temporal modeling such as hidden Markov models and dynamic Bayesian networks, exact and approximate probabilistic inference algorithms, and methods for learning models from data. Also included are sample applications to various domains including speech recognition, biological modeling and discovery, medical diagnosis, message encoding, vision, and robot motion planning. Prerequisites: basic probability theory and algorithm design and analysis.
CS229 | Machine Learning | http://cs229.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Ng videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/machine-learning/id495053006 description:Topics: statistical pattern recognition, linear and non-linear regression, non-parametric methods, exponential family, GLMs, support vector machines, kernel methods, model/feature selection, learning theory, VC dimension, clustering, density estimation, EM, dimensionality reduction, ICA, PCA, reinforcement learning and adaptive control, Markov decision processes, approximate dynamic programming, and policy search. Prerequisites: linear algebra, and basic probability and statistics.
CS229T | Statistical Learning Theory | http://cs229T.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Liang description:(Same as STATS 231) How do we formalize what it means for an algorithm to learn from data?  This course focuses on developing mathematical tools for answering this question.  We will present various common learning algorithms and prove theoretical guarantees about them.  Topics include online learning, kernel methods, generalization bounds (uniform convergence), and spectral methods.  Prerequisites: A solid background in linear algebra and probability theory, statistics and machine learning (STATS 315A or CS 229).  Convex optimization (EE 364a) is helpful but not required.
CS22A | Social & Economic Impact of Artificial Intelligenc | http://cs22A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Kaplan description:Recent advances in computing may place us at the threshold of a unique turning point in human history. Soon we are likely to entrust management of our environment, economy, security, infrastructure, food production, healthcare, and to a large degree even our personal activities, to artificially intelligent computer systems. The prospect of "turning over the keys" to increasingly autonomous systems raises many complex and troubling questions. How will society respond as versatile robots and machine-learning systems displace an ever-expanding spectrum of blue- and white-collar workers? Will the benefits of this technological revolution be broadly distributed or accrue to a lucky few? How can we ensure that these systems respect our ethical principles when they make decisions at speeds and for rationales that exceed our ability to comprehend? What, if any, legal rights and responsibilities should we grant them? And should we regard them merely as sophisticated tools or as a newly emerging form of life? The goal of CS22 is to equip students with the intellectual tools, ethical foundation, and psychological framework to successfully navigate the coming age of intelligent machines.
CS231A | Computer Vision:From 3D Recontruct to Recognition | http://cs231A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Savarese description:(Formerly 223B) An introduction to the concepts and applications in computer vision. Topics include: cameras and projection models, low-level image processing methods such as filtering and edge detection; mid-level vision topics such as segmentation and clustering; shape reconstruction from stereo, as well as high-level vision tasks such as object recognition, scene recognition, face detection and human motion categorization. Prerequisites: linear algebra, basic probability and statistics.
CS231N | Convolutional Neural Networks for Visual Recognition | http://cs231N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Li/Karpathy description:Computer Vision has become ubiquitous in our society, with applications innsearch, image understanding, apps, mapping, medicine, drones, andnself-driving cars. Core to many of these applications are the tasks of image classification, localization and detection. This course is a deep dive into details of neural network architectures with a focus on learning end-to-end models for these tasks, particularly image classification. During the 10-week course, students will learn to implement, train and debug their own neural networks and gain a detailed understanding of cutting-edge research in computer vision. The final assignment will involve training a multi-million parameter convolutional neural network and applying it on the largest image classification dataset (ImageNet). We will focus on teaching how to set up the problem of image recognition, the learning algorithms (e.g. backpropagation), practical engineering tricks for training and fine-tuning the networks and guide the students through hands-on assignments and a final course project. Much of the background and materials of this course will be drawn from the ImageNet Challenge: http://image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/2014/index. Prerequisites: Proficiency in Python; familiarity with C/C++; CS 131 and CS 229 or equivalents; Math 21 or equivalent, linear algebra.
CS232 | Digital Image Processing | http://cs232.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Wetzstein description:Image sampling and quantization color, point operations, segmentation, morphological image processing, linear image filtering and correlation, image transforms, eigenimages, multiresolution image processing, noise reduction and restoration, feature extraction and recognition tasks, image registration. Emphasis is on the general principles of image processing. Students learn to apply material by implementing and investigating image processing algorithms in Matlab and optionally on Android mobile devices. Term project. Recommended: EE261, EE278.
CS233 | Shape of Data: Geometric & Topological Data Analys | http://cs233.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Guibas description:Mathematical computational tools for the analysis of data with geometric content, such images, videos, 3D scans, GPS traces -- as well as for other data embedded into geometric spaces. Global and local geometry descriptors allowing for various kinds of invariances. The rudiments of computational topology and persistent homology on sampled spaces. Clustering and other unsupervised techniques. Spectral methods for geometric data analysis. Non-linear dimensionality reduction. Alignment, matching, and map computation between geometric data sets. Function spaces and functional maps.Networks of data sets and joint analysis for segmentation and labeling. The emergence of abstractions or concepts from data. Prerequisites: discrete algorithms at the level of 161; linear algebra at the level of CM103.
CS238 | Decision Making under Uncertainty | http://cs238.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Kochenderfer description:This course is designed to increase awareness and appreciation for why uncertainty matters, particularly for aerospace applications. Introduces decision making under uncertainty from a computational perspective and provides an overview of the necessary tools for building autonomous and decision-support systems. Following an introduction to probabilistic models and decision theory, the course will cover computational methods for solving decision problems with stochastic dynamics, model uncertainty, and imperfect state information. Topics include: Bayesian networks, influence diagrams, dynamic programming, reinforcement learning, and partially observable Markov decision processes. Applications cover: air traffic control, aviation surveillance systems, autonomous vehicles, and robotic planetary exploration. Prerequisites: basic probability and fluency in a high-level programming language.
CS239 | Advanced Topics in Sequential Decision Making | http://cs239.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Kochenderfer description:Survey of recent research advances in intelligent decision making for dynamic environments from a computational perspective. Efficient algorithms for single and multiagent planning in situations where a model of the environment may or may not be known. Partially observable Markov decision processes, approximate dynamic programming, and reinforcement learning. New approaches for overcoming challenges in generalization from experience, exploration of the environment, and model representation so that these methods can scale to real problems in a variety of domains including aerospace, air traffic control, and robotics. Students are expected to produce an original research paper on a relevant topic. Prerequisites: AA 228/CS 238 or CS 221.
CS240 | Advanced Topics in Operating Systems | http://cs240.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Engler description:Recent research. Classic and new papers. Topics: virtual memory management, synchronization and communication, file systems, protection and security, operating system extension techniques, fault tolerance, and the history and experience of systems programming. Prerequisite: 140 or equivalent.
CS240H | Functional Systems in Haskell | http://cs240H.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Mazieres/O'Sul description:Covers an array of practical issues and techniques that arise when building real-world systems in the Haskell programming language. Topics include the basics of Haskell, laziness, monads, parsers, testing and debugging, performance tuning, interfacing to native code, concurrency and I/O paradigms, language extensions, meta-programming, and applications to the web and security. Concepts will be reinforced through a few individual programming assignments followed by a larger team project. Prior familiarity with Haskell may be helpful but is not required. Prerequisites: CS106B or 106X.
CS241 | Embedded Systems Workshop | http://cs241.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Levis/Kovacs description:Project-centric building hardware and software for embedded computing systems. Students work on an existing project of their own or join one of these projects. Syllabus topics will be determined by the needs of the enrolled students and projects. Examples of topics include: interrupts and concurrent programming, deterministic timing and synchronization, state-based programming models, filters, frequency response, and high-frequency signals, low power operation, system and PCB design, security, and networked communication. Prerequisite: CS107 (or equivalent).
CS242 | Programming Languages | http://cs242.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Yang description:Central concepts in modern programming languages, impact on software development, language design trade-offs, and implementation considerations. Functional, imperative, and object-oriented paradigms. Formal semantic methods and program analysis. Modern type systems, higher order functions and closures, exceptions and continuations. Modularity, object-oriented languages, and concurrency. Runtime support for language features, interoperability, and security issues. Prerequisite: 107, or experience with Lisp, C, and an object-oriented language.
CS243 | Program Analysis and Optimizations | http://cs243.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Lam description:Program analysis techniques used in compilers and software development tools to improve productivity, reliability, and security. The methodology of applying mathematical abstractions such as graphs, fixpoint computations, binary decision diagrams in writing complex software, using compilers as an example. Topics include data flow analysis, instruction scheduling, register allocation, parallelism, data locality, interprocedural analysis, and garbage collection. Prerequisites: 103 or 103B, and 107.
CS244 | Advanced Topics in Networking | http://cs244.Stanford.EDU | instructors:McKeown/Winste description:Classic papers, new ideas, and research papers in networking. Architectural principles: naming, addressing, routing; congestion control, traffic management, QoS; wireless and mobility; overlay networks and virtualization; network security; switching and routing; content distribution; and proposals for future Internet structures. Prerequisite: 144 or equivalent.
CS244B | Distributed Systems | http://cs244B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Cheriton description:Distributed operating systems and applications issues, emphasizing high-level protocols and distributed state sharing as the key technologies. Topics: distributed shared memory, object-oriented distributed system design, distributed directory services, atomic transactions and time synchronization, application-sufficient consistency, file access, process scheduling, process migration, and storage/communication abstractions on distribution, scale, robustness in the face of failure, and security.  Prerequisites: CS 144 and CS 249A.
CS245 | Database System Principles | http://cs245.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Garcia-Molina description:File organization and access, buffer management, performance analysis, and storage management. Database system architecture, query optimization, transaction management, recovery, concurrency control. Reliability, protection, and integrity. Design and management issues. Prerequisites: 145, 161.
CS246 | Mining Massive Data Sets | http://cs246.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Ullman description:The course will discuss data mining and machine learning algorithms for analyzing very large amounts of data. The emphasis will be on Map Reduce as a tool for creating parallel algorithms that can process very large amounts of data. Topics include: Frequent itemsets and Association rules, Near Neighbor Search in High Dimensional Data, Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH), Dimensionality reduction, Recommender Systems, Clustering, Link Analysis, Large-scale machine learning, Data streams,  Analysis of Social-network Graphs, and Web Advertising. Prerequisites: At lease one of CS107 or CS145; At least one of CS109 or STAT116, or equivalent.
CS246H | Mining Massive Datasets Hadoop Lab | http://cs246H.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Templeton description:Supplement to CS 246 providing additional material on Hadoop. Students will learn how to implement data mining algorithms using Hadoop, how to implement and debug complex MapReduce jobs in Hadoop, and how to use some of the tools in the Hadoop ecosystem for data mining and machine learning. Topics: Hadoop, MapReduce, HDFS, combiners, secondary sort, distributed cache, SQL on Hadoop, Hive, Cloudera ML/Oryx, Mahout, Hadoop streaming, implementing Hadoop jobs, debugging Hadoop jobs, TF-IDF, Pig, Sqoop, Oozie, HBase, Impala. Prerequisite: CS 107 or equivalent.
CS247 | Human-Computer Interaction Design Studio | http://cs247.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Bernstein/Agra description:Project-based focus on interaction design process, especially early-stage design and rapid prototyping. Methods used in interaction design including needs analysis, user observation, sketching, concept generation, scenario building, and evaluation. Prerequisites: 147 or equivalent background in design thinking; 106B or equivalent background in programming. Recommended: CS 142 or equivalent background in web programming
CS248 | Interactive Computer Graphics | http://cs248.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Fedkiw description:This is the second course in the computer graphics sequence, and as such it assumes a strong familiarity with rendering and image creation. The course has a strong focus on computational geometry, animation, and simulation. Topics include splines, implicit surfaces, geometric modeling, collision detection, animation curves, particle systems and crowds, character animation, articulation, skinning, motion capture and editing, rigid and deformable bodies, and fluid simulation. As a final project, students implement an interactive video game utilizing various concepts covered in the class. Games may be designed on mobile devices, in a client/server/browser environment, or on a standard personal computer. Prerequisite: CS148.
CS249A | Object-Oriented Prog: A Modeling & Simul Perspect | http://cs249A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Cheriton description:Topics: large-scale software development approaches for complex applications, class libraries and frameworks; encapsulation, use of inheritance and dynamic dispatch, design of interfaces and interface/implementation separation, exception handling, smart pointers and reference management, minimalizing dependencies and value-oriented programming. Inheritance: when and why multiple inheritance naming, directories, manager, and disciplined use of design patterns including functors, event notification and iterators. Prerequisites: C, C++, and programming methodology as developed in 106B or X, and 107 (107 may be taken concurrently). Recommended: 193D.
CS251 | Bitcoin and Crypto Currencies | http://cs251.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Boneh description:For advanced undergraduates and for graduate students.  The potential applications for Bitcoin-like technologies is enormous.  The course will cover the technical aspects of crypto-currencies, blockchain technologies, and distributed consensus. Students will learn how these systems work and how to engineer secure software that interacts with the Bitcoin network and other crypto currencies. Prerequisite: CS110. Recommended: CS255.
CS251P | Bitcoin and Crypto Currencies Lab | http://cs251P.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Boneh description:Bitcoin has the potential to change how payments are done on the Internet and beyond. In this class, you will build Bitcoin-powered versions of many of the most popular internet services. For example, you will build a search engine that takes in a small amount of bitcoin for each query, a social network that allows individuals to buy internet celebrity endorsements for bitcoin, and a content site that charges a small amount of bitcoin for each page view. In each case, we will show how Bitcoin micropayments can supplant or complement the traditional ad-supported model. The course is based on a weekly hackathon; each Monday you will receive some stub code illustrating the basic mechanics of a Bitcoin-powered internet service, and you will improve this as best you can as an individual or in a small group by the end of Sunday on that week. Winners of each week's hackathon will be recognized. Prerequisites: No previous Bitcoin knowledge is required. Students who have taken CS251 or CS251P will have more context, but this course is all new material.  Recommended: Intensive programming experience at the level of CS107 or above.
CS255 | Introduction to Cryptography | http://cs255.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Boneh description:For advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Theory and practice of cryptographic techniques used in computer security. Topics: encryption (symmetric and public key), digital signatures, data integrity, authentication, key management, PKI, zero-knowledge protocols, and real-world applications. Prerequisite: basic probability theory.
CS261 | Optimization and Algorithmic Paradigms | http://cs261.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Roughgarden description:Algorithms for network optimization: max-flow, min-cost flow, matching, assignment, and min-cut problems. Introduction to linear programming. Use of LP duality for design and analysis of algorithms. Approximation algorithms for NP-complete problems such as Steiner Trees, Traveling Salesman, and scheduling problems. Randomized algorithms. Introduction to online algorithms. Prerequisite: 161 or equivalent.
CS262 | Computational Genomics | http://cs262.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Batzoglou description:Applications of computer science to genomics, and concepts in genomics from a computer science point of view. Topics: dynamic programming, sequence alignments, hidden Markov models, Gibbs sampling, and probabilistic context-free grammars. Applications of these tools to sequence analysis: comparative genomics, DNA sequencing and assembly, genomic annotation of repeats, genes, and regulatory sequences, microarrays and gene expression, phylogeny and molecular evolution, and RNA structure. Prerequisites: 161 or familiarity with basic algorithmic concepts. Recommended: basic knowledge of genetics.
CS265 | Randomized Algorithms and Probabilistic Analysis | http://cs265.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Valiant description:Randomness pervades the natural processes around us, from the formation of networks, to genetic recombination, to quantum physics. Randomness is also a powerful tool that can be leveraged to create algorithms and data structures which, in many cases, are more efficient and simpler than their deterministic counterparts. This course covers the key tools of probabilistic analysis, and application of these tools to understand the behaviors of random processes and algorithms. Emphasis is on theoretical foundations, though we will apply this theory broadly, discussing applications in machine learning and data analysis, networking, and systems. Topics include tail bounds, the probabilistic method, Markov chains, and martingales, with applications to analyzing random graphs, metric embeddings, random walks, and a host of powerful and elegant randomized algorithms. Prerequisites: CS 161 and STAT 116, or equivalents and instructor consent.
CS267 | Graph Algorithms | http://cs267.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Williams description:An introduction to advanced topics in graph algorithms. Focusing on a variety of graph problems, the course will explore topics such as small space graph data structures, approximation algorithms, dynamic algorithms, and algorithms for special graph classes. Topics include: approximation algorithms for shortest paths and graph matching, distance oracles, graph spanners, cliques and graph patterns, dynamic algorithms, graph coloring, algorithms for planar graphs. Prerequisites: 161 or the equivalent mathematical maturity.
CS270 | Modeling Biomedical Systems | http://cs270.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Musen description:Methods for modeling biomedical systems and for making those models explicit in the context of building software systems. Emphasis is on intelligent systems for decision support and Semantic Web applications. Topics: knowledge representation, controlled terminologies, ontologies, reusable problem solvers, and knowledge acquisition. Recommended: exposure to object-oriented systems, basic biology.
CS272 | Intro Biomedical Informatics Research Methodology | http://cs272.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Altman description:Hands-on software building. Student teams conceive, design, specify, implement, evaluate, and report on a software project in the domain of biomedicine. Creating written proposals, peer review, providing status reports, and preparing final reports. Guest lectures from professional biomedical informatics systems builders on issues related to the process of project management. Software engineering basics. Because the team projects start in the first week of class, attendance that week is strongly recommended. Prerequisites: BIOMEDIN 210 or 211 or 214 or 217 or consent of instructor.
CS273A | A Computational Tour of the Human Genome | http://cs273A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Batzoglou/Beje description:Introduction to computational biology through an informatic exploration of the human genome. Topics include: genome sequencing (technologies, assembly, personalized sequencing); functional landscape (genes, gene regulation, repeats, RNA genes, epigenetics); genome evolution (comparative genomics, ultraconservation, co-option). Additional topics may include population genetics, personalized genomics, and ancient DNA. Course includes primers on molecular biology, the UCSC Genome Browser, and text processing languages. Guest lectures from genomic researchers. No prerequisites. See http://cs273a.stanford.edu/.
CS274 | Reps and Algor for Computational Molecular Bio | http://cs274.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Altman description:Topics: introduction to bioinformatics and computational biology, algorithms for alignment of biological sequences and structures, computing with strings, phylogenetic tree construction, hidden Markov models, Gibbs Sampling, basic structural computations on proteins, protein structure prediction, protein threading techniques, homology modeling, molecular dynamics and energy minimization, statistical analysis of 3D biological data, integration of data sources, knowledge representation and controlled terminologies for molecular biology, microarray analysis, machine learning (clustering and classification), and natural language text processing. Prerequisites: programming skills; consent of instructor for 3 units.
CS275 | Translational Bioinformatics | http://cs275.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Analytic, storage, and interpretive methods to optimize the transformation of genetic, genomic, and biological data into diagnostics and therapeutics for medicine. Topics: access and utility of publicly available data sources; types of genome-scale measurements in molecular biology and genomic medicine; analysis of microarray data; analysis of polymorphisms, proteomics, and protein interactions; linking genome-scale data to clinical data and phenotypes; and new questions in biomedicine using bioinformatics. Case studies. Prerequisites: programming ability at the level of CS 106A and familiarity with statistics and biology.
CS275A | Symbolic Musical Information | http://cs275A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Selfridge-Fiel description:Focus on symbolic data for music applications including advanced notation systems, optical music recognition, musical data conversion, and internal structure of MIDI files.
CS275B | Music Query, Analysis and Style Simulation | http://cs275B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Selfridge-Fiel description:Leveraging off three synchronized sets of symbolic data resources for notation and analysis, the lab portion introduces students to the open-source Humdrum Toolkit for music representation and analysis.  Issues of data content and quality as well as methods of information retrieval, visualization, and summarization are considered in class. Grading based primarily on student projects. Prerequisite: 253 or consent of instructor.
CS276 | Information Retrieval and Web Search | http://cs276.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Manning/Nayak description:Text information retrieval systems; efficient text indexing; Boolean, vector space, and probabilistic retrieval models; ranking and rank aggregation; evaluating IR systems. Text clustering and classification: classification algorithms, latent semantic indexing, taxonomy induction; Web search engines including crawling and indexing, link-based algorithms, and web metadata. Prerequisites: CS 107, CS 109, CS 161.
CS279 | Comp Biology: Struct & Org of Biomolecules & Cells | http://cs279.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Dror description:Computational approaches to understanding the three-dimensional spatial organization of biological systems and how that organization evolves over time. The course will cover cutting-edge research in both physics-based simulations and computational analysis of experimental data, at scales ranging from individual molecules to multiple cells. Prerequisites: elementary programming background (106A or equivalent) and an introductory course in biology or biochemistry.
CS294S | Research Project in Software Systems and Security | http://cs294S.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Lam description:Topics vary. Focus is on emerging research themes such as programmable open mobile Internet that spans multiple system topics such as human-computer interaction, programming systems, operating systems, networking, and security. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: CS 103 and 107.
CS294W | Writing Intensive Research Project in CS | http://cs294W.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Lam description:Restricted to Computer Science and Computer Systems Engineering undergraduates. Students enroll in the CS 294W section attached to the CS 294 project they have chosen.
CS29N | Computational Decision Making | http://cs29N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Sahami description:Although we make decisions every day, many people base their decisions on initial reactions or ""gut"" feelings. There are, however, powerful frameworks for making decisions more effectively based on computationally analyzing the choices available and their possible outcomes. In this course we give an introduction to some of these frameworks, including utility theory, decision analysis, and game theory. We also discuss why people sometimes make seemingly reasonable, yet irrational, decisions. We begin the class by presenting some of the basics of probability theory, which serves as the main mathematical foundation for the decision making frameworks we will subsequently present. Although we provide a mathematical/computational basis for the decision making frameworks we examine, we also seek to give intuitive (and sometimes counterintuitive) explanations for actual decision making behavior through in-class demonstrations. No prior experience with probability theory is needed (we'll cover what you need to know in class), but students should be comfortable with mathematical manipulation at the level of Math 20 or Math 41.
CS2C | Introduction to Media Production | http://cs2C.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Scott description:Sound, image and video editing techniques and applications, best practices and information regarding Stanford media support. Technical topics will cover Photoshop, iMovie and Garageband. Weekly pre-class online tutorials followed by weekly group work and peer critiques. Not a programming course, but will use computer multimedia applications heavily for editing.
CS300 | Departmental Lecture Series | http://cs300.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Dill description:Priority given to first-year Computer Science Ph.D. students. CS Masters students admitted if space is available.  Presentations by members of the department faculty, each describing informally his or her current research interests and views of computer science as a whole.
CS309A | Cloud Computing | http://cs309A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Chou description:For science, engineering, business, medicine, and law students. Cloud computing is bringing information systems out of the back office and making it core to the entire economy. This class is intended for all students who want to begin to understand the implications of this shift in technology. Guest industry experts are public company CEOs who are delivering application, software development, operations management, compute, storage & data center, and network cloud services.
CS315B | Parallel Computing Research Project | http://cs315B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Olukotun description:Advanced topics and new paradigms in parallel computing including parallel algorithms, programming languages, runtime environments, library debugging/tuning tools, and scalable architectures. Research project. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
CS316 | Advanced Multi-core Systems | http://cs316.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Litz description:In-depth coverage of the architectural techniques used in modern, multi-core chips for mobile and server systems. Advanced processor design techniques (superscalar cores, VLIW cores, multi-threaded cores, energy-efficient cores), cache coherence, memory consistency, vector processors, graphics processors, heterogeneous processors, and hardware support for security and parallel programming. Students will become familiar with complex trade-offs between performance-power-complexity and hardware-software interactions. A central part of CS316 is a project on an open research question on multi-core technologies. Prerequisites: EE 180 (formerly 108B). Recommended: CS 149, EE 282.
CS325 | Topics in Computational Sustainability | http://cs325.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Ermon description:Computational Sustainability focuses on developing computational models, methods and tools for sustainable development. In this course, we will study recent computational approaches that have contributed to addressing sustainability topics related to biodiversity, climate, environment, urban design, transportation, buildings and others. Computational themes include machine learning, optimization, statistical modeling, and data mining.
CS327A | Advanced Robotic Manipulation | http://cs327A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Khatib description:Advanced control methodologies and novel design techniques for complex human-like robotic and bio mechanical systems. Class covers the fundamentals in operational space dynamics and control, elastic planning, human motion synthesis. Topics include redundancy, inertial properties, haptics, simulation, robot cooperation, mobile manipulation, human-friendly robot design, humanoids and whole-body control. Additional topcs in emerging areas are presented by groups of students at the end-of-quarter mini-symposium. Prerequisites: 223A or equivalent.
CS334A | Convex Optimization | http://cs334A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Boyd description:Convex sets, functions, and optimization problems. The basics of convex analysis and theory of convex programming: optimality conditions, duality theory, theorems of alternative, and applications. Least-squares, linear and quadratic programs, semidefinite programming, and geometric programming. Numerical algorithms for smooth and equality constrained problems; interior-point methods for inequality constrained problems. Applications to signal processing, communications, control, analog and digital circuit design, computational geometry, statistics, machine learning, and mechanical engineering. Prerequisite: linear algebra such as EE263, basic probability.
CS341 | Project in Mining Massive Data Sets | http://cs341.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Re/Ullman description:Team project in data-mining of very large-scale data, including the problem statement and implementation and evaluation of a solution.  Teams consist of three students each, and they will meet regularly with a "coach" chosen from participating staff.  Early lectures will cover the use of Amazon EC2 and certain systems like Hadoop and Hive.  Occasional lectures thereafter will feature outside speakers, special topics of interest, and progress reports by the teams.
CS344G | Network Application Studio | http://cs344G.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Winstein description:Graduate project class on computer networking, emphasizing end-to-end applications and protocols. Students will propose and execute an original project in teams of 2-3, culminating in a final writeup and presentation/demonstration. Each week, students will read, present, and lead a discussion about a seminal paper or system. Prerequisites: programming experience.
CS347 | Parallel and Distributed Data Management | http://cs347.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Fern description:The principles and system organization of distributed and parallel databases. Data fragmentation and distribution, distributed database design, query processing and optimization, distributed concurrency control, reliability and commit protocols, and replicated data management. Data management in peer-to-peer systems. Data management in the "cloud" using map-reduce and other massive parallelism techniques.
CS348A | Computer Graphics: Geometric Modeling | http://cs348A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Guibas description:The mathematical tools needed for the geometrical aspects of computer graphics and especially for modeling smooth shapes. Fundamentals: homogeneous coordinates, transformations, and perspective. Theory of parametric and implicit curve and surface models: polar forms, Bézier arcs and de Casteljau subdivision, continuity constraints, B-splines, tensor product, and triangular patch surfaces. Subdivision surfaces and multi-resolution representations of geometry. Representations of solids and conversions among them. Surface reconstruction from scattered data points. Geometry processing on meshes, including simplification and parameterization. Prerequisite: linear algebra. Recommended: 248.
CS348B | Computer Graphics: Image Synthesis Techniques | http://cs348B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Hanrahan description:Intermediate level, emphasizing high-quality image synthesis algorithms and systems issues in rendering. Topics include: Reyes and advanced rasterization, including motion blur and depth of field; ray tracing and physically based rendering; Monte Carlo algorithms for rendering, including direct illumination and global illumination; path tracing and photon mapping; surface reflection and light source models; volume rendering and subsurface scattering; SIMD and multi-core parallelism for rendering. Written assignments and programming projects. Prerequisite: 248 or equivalent. Recommended: Fourier analysis or digital signal processing.
CS354 | Topics in Circuit Complexity | http://cs354.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Williams description:An overview of circuit complexity, focusing on limitations of solving computational problems with circuits. Classical methods: diagonalization; the gate elimination method and circuit size lower bounds; the method of random restrictions and formula size lower bounds; approximating circuits with polynomials and depth-restricted lower bounds. Connections between circuit-analysis algorithms and circuit complexity: learning circuits via queries; pseudorandomness and derandomization; satisfiability algorithms. Prerequisite: CS254 or the equivalent mathematical maturity.
CS357 | Advanced Topics in Formal Methods | http://cs357.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Aiken/Dill description:Topics vary annually.  Recent offerings have covered the foundations of static analysis, including decision procedures for important theories (SAT, linear integer constraints, SMT solvers), model checking, abstract interpretation, and constraint-based analysis. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: 256.
CS361 | Intro to Multidisciplinary Design Optimization | http://cs361.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Kochenderfer description:Design of aerospace systems within a formal optimization environment. Mathematical formulation of the multidisciplinary design problem (parameterization of design space, choice of objective functions, constraint definition); survey of algorithms for unconstrained and constrained optimization and optimality conditions; description of sensitivity analysis techniques. Hierarchical techniques for decomposition of the multidisciplinary design problem; use of approximation theory.  Applications to design problems in aircraft and launch vehicle design. Prerequisites: multivariable calculus; familiarity with a high-level programming language: FORTRAN, C, C++, MATLAB, Python, or Julia.
CS367 | Algebraic Graph Algorithms | http://cs367.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Williams description:Due to the surprisingly fast algorithms for the problem, matrix multiplication is routinely used as a basic building block for algorithms beating the brute-force approach. This course explores matrix multiplication algorithms and a variety of problems, mostly within graph algorithms, that can be solved faster using a fast matrix multiplication algorithm. Topics include: Fast Matrix Multiplication, algebraic algorithms for Graph Transitive Closure, All Pairs Shortest Paths and variants of the problem, Perfect Matching and Minimum Cycle, and a variety of equivalences between problems involving matrix multiplication.  Prerequisites: CS154, CS161, or the equivalent mathematical maturity.
CS369A | Advanced Approximation Algorithms | http://cs369A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Charikar description:Optimization problems are ubiquitous, yet most are NP-hard to solve exactly. One popular approach to circumvent this intractability is to design approximation algorithms, i.e. efficient algorithms that produce solutions with value close to the optimum. This course will cover major advances in the field of approximation algorithms in the past decade or so. Prerequisites: Students will be expected to have a strong background in algorithms and probability. Familiarity with basic approximation algorithms (or permission of instructor).
CS369G | Algorithmic Techniques for Big Data | http://cs369G.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Charikar description:Designing algorithms for efficient processing of large data sets poses unique challenges. This course will discuss algorithmic paradigms that have been developed to efficiently process data sets that are much larger than available memory. We will cover streaming algorithms and sketching methods that produce compact data structures, dimension reduction methods that preserve geometric structure, efficient algorithms for numerical linear algebra, graph sparsification methods, as well as impossibility results for these techniques. Prerequisite: a strong background in algorithms and probability.
CS369L | Algorithmic Perspective on Machine Learning | http://cs369L.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Charikar description:Many problems in machine learning are intractable in the worst case, and pose a challenge for the design of algorithms with provable guarantees. In this course, we will discuss several success stories at the intersection of algorithm design and machine learning, focusing on devising appropriate models and mathematical tools to facilitate rigorous analysis. Prerequisites: A strong background in algorithms, probability and linear algebra.
CS371 | Computational Biology in Four Dimensions | http://cs371.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Dror description:Computational approaches to understanding the three-dimensional spatial organization of biological systems and how that organization evolves over time.  The course will cover cutting-edge research in both physics-based simulation and computational analysis of experimental data, at scales ranging from individual molecules to entire cells.  Prerequisite: CS 106A or equivalent, and an introductory course in biology or biochemistry. Recommended: some experience in mathematical modeling (does not need to be a formal course).
CS373 | Statistical and Machine Learning for Genomics | http://cs373.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Tang description:Introduction to statistical and computational methods for genomics. Sample topics include: expectation maximization, hidden Markov model, Markov chain Monte Carlo, ensemble learning, probabilistic graphical models, kernel methods and other modern machine learning paradigms. Rationales and techniques illustrated with existing implementations used in population genetics, disease association, and functional regulatory genomics studies. Instruction includes lectures and discussion of readings from primary literature.  Homework and projects require implementing some of the algorithms and using existing toolkits for analysis of genomic datasets.
CS374 | Algorithms in Biology | http://cs374.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Batzoglou description:Algorithms and computational models applied to molecular biology and genetics. Topics vary annually. Possible topics include biological sequence comparison, annotation of genes and other functional elements, molecular evolution, genome rearrangements, microarrays and gene regulation, protein folding and classification, molecular docking, RNA secondary structure, DNA computing, and self-assembly. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: 161, 262 or 274, or BIOCHEM 218, or equivalents.
CS377E | Designing Solutions to Global Grand Challenges | http://cs377E.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Landay/Stanfor description:In this course we creatively apply information technologies to collectively attack Global Grand Challenges (e.g., global warming, rising healthcare costs and declining access, and ensuring quality education for all). This quarter we will focus on assisting refugees.  Interdisciplinary student teams will carry out need-finding within a target domain, followed by brainstorming to propose a quarter long project. Teams will spend the rest of the quarter applying user-centered design methods to rapidly iterate through design, prototyping, and testing of their solutions. This course will interweave a weekly lecture with a weekly studio session where students apply the techniques hands-on in a small-scale, supportive environment.
CS377M | Topics in Human-Computer Interaction | http://cs377M.Stanford.EDU | instructors:White description:Mixed Reality (MR) combines physical and virtual worlds together in one unified user experience. With Oculus Rift and Microsoft Hololens releasing in 2016, MR represents the forefront of HCI innovation. In this course, students engage with a range of issues around design and development of MR systems and develop their own MR interactions. The course begins with use, analysis, and redesign of an existing MR system, followed by larger group projects integrating concepts from the course to prototype novel MR interactions. Students work in project teams, prototyping their concept and communicating their progress through demonstration, final report, and presentation. Prerequisites: CS 147 or 247.
CS377U | Understanding Users | http://cs377U.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Bentley description:This project-based class focuses on understanding the use of technology in the world. Students will learn generative and evaluative research methods to explore how systems are appropriated into everyday life in a quarter-long project where they design, implement and evaluate a novel mobile application. Quantitative (e.g. A/B testing, instrumentation, analytics, surveys) and qualitative (e.g. diary studies, contextual inquiry, ethnography) methods and their combination will be covered along with practical experience applying these methods in their project. Prerequisites: CS 147, 193A/193P (or equivalent mobile programming experience).
CS379C | Computational Models of the Neocortex | http://cs379C.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Dean
CS390A | Curricular Practical Training | http://cs390A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Educational opportunities in high technology research and development labs in the computing industry. Qualified computer science students engage in internship work and integrate that work into their academic program. Students register during the quarter they are employed and complete a research report outlining their work activity, problems investigated, results, and follow-on projects they expect to perform. 390 A, B, and C may each be taken once.
CS390B | Curricular Practical Training | http://cs390B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Educational opportunities in high technology research and development labs in the computing industry. Qualified computer science students engage in internship work and integrate that work into their academic program. Students register during the quarter they are employed and complete a research report outlining their work activity, problems investigated, results, and follow-on projects they expect to perform. 390A,B,C may each be taken once.
CS390C | Curricular Practical Training | http://cs390C.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Educational opportunities in high technology research and development labs in the computing industry. Qualified computer science students engage in internship work and integrate that work into their academic program. Students register during the quarter they are employed and complete a research report outlining their work activity, problems investigated, results, and follow-on projects they expect to perform. 390A,B,C may each be taken once.
CS390P | Part-time Curricular Practical Training | http://cs390P.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:For qualified computer science PhD students only. Permission number required for enrollment; see the CS PhD program administrator in Gates room 196. May be taken just once; not repeatable. Educational opportunities in high technology research and development labs in the computing industry. Qualified computer science students engage in research and integrate that work into their academic program. Students register during the quarter they are employed and complete a research report outlining their work activity, problems investigated, results, and follow-on projects they expect to perform. Students on F1 visas should be aware that completing 12 or more months of full-time CPT will make them ineligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT).
CS393 | Computer Laboratory | http://cs393.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:For CS graduate students. A substantial computer program is designed and implemented; written report required. Recommended as a preparation for dissertation research. Register using the section number associated with the instructor. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
CS395 | Independent Database Project | http://cs395.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:For graduate students in Computer Science. Use of database management or file systems for a substantial application or implementation of components of database management system. Written analysis and evaluation required. Register using the section number associated with the instructor. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
CS399 | Independent Project | http://cs399.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Letter grade only.
CS399P | Independent Project | http://cs399P.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Graded satisfactory/no credit.
CS402 | Beyond Bits & Atoms: Designing Technological Tools | http://cs402.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Blikstein description:Practicum in designing and building technology-enabled curricula and hands-on learning environments. Students use software toolkits and state-of-the-art fabrication machines to design educational software, educational toolkits, and tangible user interfaces. The course will focus on designing low-cost technologies, particularly for urban school in the US and abroad. We will explore theoretical and design frameworks from the constructionist learning perspective, critical pedagogy, interaction design for children.
CS402L | Beyond Bits and Atoms: Lab | http://cs402L.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Blikstein description:This course is a hands-on lab in the prototyping and fabrication of tangible technologies, with a special focus in learning and education. We will learn how to use state-of-the-art fabrication machines (3D printers, 3D scanners, laser cutters, routers) to design educational toolkits, educational toys, science kits, and tangible user interfaces. A special focus of the course will be to design low-cost technologies, particularly for urban school in the US and abroad.
CS41 | Hap.py Code: The Python Programming Language | http://cs41.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Cain/Redmond description:The fundamentals and contemporary usage of the Python programming language. Primary focus on developing best practices in writing Python and exploring the extensible and unique parts of Python that make it such a powerful language. Topics include: data structures (e.g. lists and dictionaries) and characteristic pythonic conventions such as anonymous functions, iterables, and powerful built-ins (e.g. map, filter, zip). We will also cover object-oriented design, the standard library, and common third-party packages (e.g. requests, pillow). Time permitting, we will explore modern Python-based web frameworks and project distribution. Prerequisite: 106B/X or equivalent. Application required.
CS42 | Callback Me Maybe: Contemporary Javascript | http://cs42.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Viswanathan/Na description:Introduction to the JavaScript programming language with a focus on building contemporary applications. Course consists of in-class activities and programming assignments that challenge students to create functional web apps (e.g. Yelp, Piazza, Instagram). Topics include syntax/semantics, event-based programming, document object model (DOM), application programming interfaces (APIs), asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX), jQuery, Node.js, and MongoDB. Prerequisite: CS 107.
CS448B | Data Visualization | http://cs448B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Agrawala description:Techniques and algorithms for creating effective visualizations based on principles from graphic design, visual art, perceptual psychology, and cognitive science.  Topics: graphical perception, data and image models, visual encoding, graph and tree layout, color, animation, interaction techniques, automated design.  Lectures, reading, and project.  Prerequisite: one of 147, 148, or equivalent.
CS448H | Domain-Specific Languages for Graphics, Imaging & Beyon | http://cs448H.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Hanrahan description:Topic changes each quarter. Recent topics: computational photography, data visualization, character animation, virtual worlds, graphics architectures, advanced rendering.  See http://graphics.stanford.edu/courses for offerings and prerequisites. May be repeated for credit.
CS448I | Computational Imaging and Display | http://cs448I.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Wetzstein description:Spawned by rapid advances in optical fabrication and digital processing power, a new generation of imaging technology is emerging: computational cameras at the convergence of applied mathematics, optics, and high-performance computing. Similar trends are observed for modern displays pushing the boundaries of resolution, contrast, 3D capabilities, and immersive experiences through the co-design of optics, electronics, and computation. This course serves as an introduction to the emerging field of computational imaging and displays. Students will learn to master bits and photons.
CS448J | Concepts & Algorithms of Scientific & Visual Computing | http://cs448J.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Michels description:This course covers a selection of fundamental concepts and algorithms for scientific and visual computing. Based on prior knowledge in basis calculus, linear algebra, numerical interpolation and optimization, this course introduces the concept of the phase space, variational principles, methods for ordinary and partial differential equations, Fourier analysis, and multi- scale modeling. The lecture is algorithmically oriented, aiming to enable the students to develop efficient solutions for practically relevant problems, based on solid theoretical foundations and mathematically precise modeling. It covers practical applications, like the simulation of rigid and deformable objects, fibers, fluids, molecular dynamics, signal/image analysis and processing, as well as wavelet-based modeling on different scales. Prerequisites: Basic knowledge such as taught in MATH 41, MATH 42, CS 103, or CS 205A.
CS448Z | Physically Based Animation and Sound | http://cs448Z.Stanford.EDU | instructors:James description:Intermediate level, emphasizing physically based simulation techniques for computer animation and synchronized sound synthesis. Topics vary from year to year, but include integrated approaches to visual and auditory simulation of rigid bodies, deformable solids, collision detection and contact resolution, fracture, fluids and gases, and virtual characters. Written assignments and programming projects. Prerequisite: None. Recommended: Computer graphics (CS 148 and CS 248), and/or scientific computing (CS 205).
CS44N | Computational Thinking and Systems in the Real-world | http://cs44N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Cheriton description:Computing in the real-world is too often viewed as working away concocting some computer incantations hidden inside some high technology company.  However, computing and computer communication has infiltrated and in many cases revolutionized several ¿systems¿ in the real world, including financial systems, inventory management, advertising systems, supply chain management, transportation systems, defense systems and so on.  Moreover, the discipline of thinking that has developed to build these systems, computational thinking, has powerful applicability to real-world problems and situations outside of computer programming.  This course provides an introduction and exposure to some of these dramatic trends, opportunities and risks.  Also included is an introduction to some basic ideas in ¿computational thinking¿.  The course will include guest speakers.  No programming competence is assumed but exposure to programming would be useful.  Interest in the real world and interest is not being run-over by this trend is essential.
CS45N | Computers and Photography: From Capture to Sharing | http://cs45N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Garcia-Molina description:Preference to freshmen with experience in photography and use of computers. Elements of photography, such as lighting, focus, depth of field, aperture, and composition. How a photographer makes photos available for computer viewing, reliably stores them, organizes them, tags them, searches them, and distributes them online. No programming experience required. Digital SLRs and editing software will be provided to those students who do not wish to use their own.
CS46N | Big Data, Big Discoveries, Big Fallacies | http://cs46N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Widom description:A sea change has occurred in science, technology, medicine, politics, and society as a whole: many of the world's biggest discoveries and decisions are now being made on the basis of analyzing massive data sets, referred to as "big data". Everyday examples include social-network friend recommendations, and weather predictions far more accurate than a decade ago; both use vast collections of data to model the past and predict the future. But it is surprisingly easy to come to false conclusions from data analysis alone. For example, we might conclude that acne medicine prevents heart attacks and strokes, if we forget to factor in the age of the patients. Privacy is a major concern: Target stores analyzed buying patterns to predict with remarkable accuracy which of their shoppers had just become pregnant, but trouble arose when they sent baby ads to the homes of pregnant teens whose parents weren't yet in the know. We will start by surveying the history of data-driven activities, leading up to the recent Big Data explosion. A variety of data analysis techniques will be covered, leading students to appreciate that even simple techniques can go a long way when the data set is large enough. Common stumbling blocks leading to false conclusions will be discussed, and students will be asked to debate the many issues surrounding privacy. In one project, students will see whose analysis techniques can best predict user movie ratings based on past rating behavior. A second project will be individually designed in an area of the student's choosing. The seminar will include a mix of assigned readings, small-scale investigations and assignments, classroom discussions, and two projects. No computer programming or special math skills are required; students will learn the basic techniques and tools they need to complete the data analysis assignments and projects.
CS476A | Music, Computing and Design I | http://cs476A.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Wang description:Creative design for computer music software. Programming, audiovisual design, as well as software design for musical tools, instruments, toys, and games. Provides paradigms and strategies for designing and building music software, with emphases on interactive systems, aesthetics, and artful product design. Course work includes several programming assignments and a "design+implement" final project. Prerequisite: experience in C/C++ and/or Java.
CS476B | Music, Computing, Design II:Virtual & Aug Reality | http://cs476B.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Wang description:Aesthetics, design, and exploration of creative musical applications of virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR), centered around VR and mobile technologies. Comparison between AR, VR, and traditional software design paradigms for music. Topics include embodiment, interaction design, novel instruments, social experience, software design + prototyping. Prerequisite: MUSIC 256A / CS 476A.
CS499 | Advanced Reading and Research | http://cs499.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Letter grade only. Advanced reading and research for CS graduate students. Register using the section number associated with the instructor. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
CS499P | Advanced Reading and Research | http://cs499P.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed) description:Graded satisfactory/no credit. Advanced reading and research for CS graduate students. Register using the section number associated with the instructor. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
CS546 | Seminar on Liberation Technologies | http://cs546.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Goel/Diamond description:This one-unit seminar will present speakers relevant in a variety ofnways to how various forms of information technology are being used tondefend human rights, improve governance, deepen democracy, empower thenpoor, promote economic development, protect the environment, enhancenpublic health, and pursue a variety of other social goods.
CS547 | Human-Computer Interaction Seminar | http://cs547.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Bernstein description:Weekly speakers on human-computer interaction topics. May be repeated for credit.
CS549 | Human-Computer Interaction in the Real World | http://cs549.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Kumar description:Intended for students who are pursuing a focus on HCI, this course focuses on showing students how HCI gets applied in industry across different types of companies. The course consists of on-site visits to large companies (for example Google, Yahoo, Square, Tesla) and to startups to talk to the HCI practitioners at these companies and learn first hand how HCI and design fits in at different companies. The objective of this class is to have students understand how HCI practitioners fit into organizations, the roles they play, and what skills they need in the real world to be able to do their magic.
CS54N | Great Ideas in Computer Science | http://cs54N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Roberts description:Stanford Introductory Seminar. Preference to freshmen. Covers the intellectual tradition of computer science emphasizing ideas that reflect the most important milestones in the history of the discipline.  No prior experience with programming is assumed.  Topics include programming and problem solving; implementing computation in hardware; algorithmic efficiency; the theoretical limits of computation; cryptography and security; and the philosophy behind artificial intelligence.
CS801 | TGR Project | http://cs801.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed)
CS802 | TGR Dissertation | http://cs802.Stanford.EDU | instructors:(none listed)
CS9 | Problem-solving for the CS Technical Interview | http://cs9.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Lee/Schwarz description:This course will prepare students to interview for software engineering and related internships and full-time positions in industry. Drawing on multiple sources of actual interview questions, students will learn key problem-solving strategies specific to the technical/coding interview. Students will be encouraged to synthesize information they have learned across different courses in the major. Emphasis will be on the oral and combination written-oral modes of communication common in coding interviews, but which are unfamiliar settings for problem solving for many students. Prerequisites: CS 106B or X.
CS90SI | CS+Social Good: Using Web Tech to Change the World | http://cs90SI.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Cain description:Learn web technologies by working on real world projects focused on creating positive social impact. The class will cover basic topics related to web development and provide resources for more advanced learning. Students will work on small teams to implement high-impact projects for partner organizations. The aim of the class is to empower students to leverage technology for social good by inspiring action, facilitating collaboration, and forging pathways toward change. No web application experience required. Prerequisite: 106B. Application required; apply online at http://bit.ly/90siApp. Applications accepted until midnight on September 14th.
CS91SI | Digital Canvas: Intro to Visual Design on the Web | http://cs91SI.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Bernstein description:Introduction to visual design in the web context. Course consists of two components: lectures and critiques. Lectures will focus on design principles and examples from print and web, with some guest speakers. Critiques will give students the opportunity to practice both giving and receiving feedback. Topics include layout, composition, color,typography, and interaction design. Students will create designs to be showcased in a final presentation. Application required, see http://cs91si.stanford.edu.
CS92SI | Hap.py Coder: The Python Programming Language | http://cs92SI.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Parlante description:The fundamentals and contemporary usage of the Python programming language. Primary focus on developing best practices in writing Python and exploring the extensible and unique parts of Python that make it such a powerful scripting language. Topics include: data structures (e.g. lists and dictionaries), and characteristic pythonic conventions like anonymous functions, iterables, and powerful built-ins (e.g. map, filter, zip). Time permitting, we will also cover object-oriented design, modules, (e.g. request, itertools), and modern Python-based web frameworks. Prerequisite: 106A. Application required.
CS94SI | What is AI? An Interdisciplinary Survey | http://cs94SI.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Liang
