6.00SC | Introduction to Computer Science and Programming (Spring 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-00sc-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:John Guttag term:Spring 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:This subject is aimed at students with little or no programming experience. It aims to provide students with an understanding of the role computation can play in solving problems. It also aims to help students, regardless of their major, to feel justifiably confident of their ability to write small programs that allow them to accomplish useful goals. The class will use the Python programming language.
6.00 | Introduction to Computer Science and Programming (Fall 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-00-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-fall-2008 | textbook:Guttag, John. Introduction to Computation and Programming Using Python. MIT Press, 2013. textbook:Guttag, John. Introduction to Computation and Programming Using Python: With Application to Understanding Data. MIT Press, 2016. level:Undergraduate instructors:Eric Grimson,  John Guttag term:Fall 2008 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This subject is aimed at students with little or no programming experience. It aims to provide students with an understanding of the role computation can play in solving problems. It also aims to help students, regardless of their major, to feel justifiably confident of their ability to write small programs that allow them to accomplish useful goals. The class will use the Python&trade; programming language.
6.01SC | Introduction to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-01sc-introduction-to-electrical-engineering-and-computer-science-i-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Leslie Kaelbling,  Jacob White,  Harold Abelson,  Dennis Freeman,  Tomás Lozano-Pérez,  Isaac Chuang term:Spring 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions, Recitation videos, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an integrated introduction to electrical engineering and computer science, taught using substantial laboratory experiments with mobile robots. Our primary goal is for you to learn to appreciate and use the fundamental design principles of modularity and abstraction in a variety of contexts from electrical engineering and computer science. Our second goal is to show you that making mathematical models of real systems can help in the design and analysis of those systems.  Finally, we have the more typical goals of teaching exciting and important basic material from electrical engineering and computer science, including modern software engineering, linear systems analysis, electronic circuits, and decision-making.
6.001 | Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-001-structure-and-interpretation-of-computer-programs-spring-2005 | textbook:Abelson, Harold, Gerald Jay Sussman, and Julie Sussman. Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Eric Grimson,  Peter Szolovits,  Trevor Darrell term:Spring 2005 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Online textbooks, Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Exams (no solutions) description:This course introduces students to the principles of computation. Upon completion of 6.001, students should be able to explain and apply the basic methods from programming languages to analyze computational systems, and to generate computational solutions to abstract problems. Substantial weekly programming assignments are an integral part of the course. This course is worth 4 Engineering Design Points.
6.002 | Circuits and Electronics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-002-circuits-and-electronics-spring-2007 | textbook:Agarwal, Anant, and Jeffrey H. Lang. Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Elsevier, July 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Anant Agarwal term:Spring 2007 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.002 is designed to serve as a first course in an undergraduate electrical engineering (EE), or electrical engineering and computer science (EECS) curriculum. At MIT, 6.002 is in the core of department subjects required for all undergraduates in EECS. The course introduces the fundamentals of the lumped circuit abstraction. Topics covered include: resistive elements and networks; independent and dependent sources; switches and MOS transistors; digital abstraction; amplifiers; energy storage elements; dynamics of first- and second-order networks; design in the time and frequency domains; and analog and digital circuits and applications. Design and lab exercises are also significant components of the course. 6.002 is worth 4 Engineering Design Points. The 6.002 content was created collaboratively by Profs. Anant Agarwal and Jeffrey H. Lang. The course uses the required textbook Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. Agarwal, Anant, and Jeffrey H. Lang. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Elsevier, July 2005. ISBN: 9781558607354.
6.003 | Signals and Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-003-signals-and-systems-fall-2011 | textbook:Oppenheim, Alan, and Alan Willsky. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. Prentice Hall, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:6.003 covers the fundamentals of signal and system analysis, focusing on representations of discrete-time and continuous-time signals (singularity functions, complex exponentials and geometrics, Fourier representations, Laplace and Z transforms, sampling) and representations of linear, time-invariant systems (difference and differential equations, block diagrams, system functions, poles and zeros, convolution, impulse and step responses, frequency responses). Applications are drawn broadly from engineering and physics, including feedback and control, communications, and signal processing.
6.004 | Computation Structures | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-004-computation-structures-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Steve Ward term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:6.004 offers an introduction to the engineering of digital systems. Starting with MOS transistors, the course develops a series of building blocks &mdash; logic gates, combinational and sequential circuits, finite-state machines, computers and finally complete systems. Both hardware and software mechanisms are explored through a series of design examples. 6.004 is required material for any EECS undergraduate who wants to understand (and ultimately design) digital systems. A good grasp of the material is essential for later courses in digital design, computer architecture and systems. The problem sets and lab exercises are intended to give students &quot;hands-on&quot; experience in designing digital systems; each student completes a gate-level design for a reduced instruction set computer (RISC) processor during the semester.
6.005 | Elements of Software Construction (Fall 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-005-elements-of-software-construction-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Robert Miller term:Fall 2011 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course introduces fundamental principles and techniques of software development. Students learn how to write software that is safe from bugs, easy to understand, and ready for change. Topics include specifications and invariants; testing, test-case generation, and coverage; state machines; abstract data types and representation independence; design patterns for object-oriented programming; concurrent programming, including message passing and shared concurrency, and defending against races and deadlock; and functional programming with immutable data and higher-order functions.  The course includes weekly programming exercises and two substantial group projects.
6.005 | Elements of Software Construction (Fall 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-005-elements-of-software-construction-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Jackson,  Robert Miller term:Fall 2008 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to the fundamental principles and techniques of software development that have greatest impact on practice. Topics include capturing the essence of a problem by recognizing and inventing suitable abstractions; key paradigms, including state machines, functional programming, and object-oriented programming; use of design patterns to bridge gap between models and code; the role of interfaces and specification in achieving modularity and decoupling; reasoning about code using invariants; testing, test-case generation and coverage; and essentials of programming with objects, functions, and abstract types. The course includes exercises in modeling, design, implementation and reasoning.
6.006 | Introduction to Algorithms (Fall 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-006-introduction-to-algorithms-fall-2011 | textbook:Cormen, Thomas, Charles Leiserson, Ronald Rivest, and Clifford Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 3rd ed. MIT Press, 2009. level:Undergraduate instructors:Erik Demaine,  Srinivas Devadas term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:This course provides an introduction to mathematical modeling of computational problems. It covers the common algorithms, algorithmic paradigms, and data structures used to solve these problems. The course emphasizes the relationship between algorithms and programming, and introduces basic performance measures and analysis techniques for these problems.
6.006 | Introduction to Algorithms (Spring 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-006-introduction-to-algorithms-spring-2008 | textbook:Cormen, Thomas, Charles Leiserson, Ronald Rivest, and Clifford Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Wagner, Dorothea, and Thomas Willhalm. "Speed-Up Techniques for Shortest-Path Computations." In Lecture Notes in Computer Science: Proceedings of the 24th Annual Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science. Berlin / Heidelberg: Springer, 2007. level:Undergraduate instructors:Erik Demaine,  Ronald Rivest,  Srinivas Devadas term:Spring 2008 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course provides an introduction to mathematical modeling of computational problems. It covers the common algorithms, algorithmic paradigms, and data structures used to solve these problems. The course emphasizes the relationship between algorithms and programming, and introduces basic performance measures and analysis techniques for these problems.
6.007 | Electromagnetic Energy: From Motors to Lasers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-007-electromagnetic-energy-from-motors-to-lasers-spring-2011 | textbook:French, Anthony, and Edwin Taylor. An Introduction to Quantum Physics. W. W. Norton, 1978. textbook:Shen, Liang, and Jin Au Kong. Applied Electromagnetism. 3rd ed. CL Engineering, 1995. textbook:Masters, Gilbert. Sections 1.6–1.8 in Renewable and Efficient Electric Power Systems. Wiley, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Vladimir Bulovic,  Rajeev Ram,  Steven Leeb,  Jeffrey H. Lang, Dr. Yu Gu term:Spring 2011 features:Demonstration - video, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course discusses applications of electromagnetic and equivalent quantum mechanical principles to classical and modern devices. It covers energy conversion and power flow in both macroscopic and quantum-scale electrical and electromechanical systems, including electric motors and generators, electric circuit elements, quantum tunneling structures and instruments. It studies photons as waves and particles and their interaction with matter in optoelectronic devices, including solar cells, displays, and lasers.  The instructors would like to thank Scott Bradley, David Friend, Ta-Ming Shih, and Yasuhiro Shirasaki for helping to develop the course, and Kyle Hounsell, Ethan Koether, and Dmitri Megretski for their work preparing the lecture notes for OCW publication.
6.011 | Introduction to Communication, Control, and Signal Processing (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-011-introduction-to-communication-control-and-signal-processing-spring-2010 | textbook:The notes have also been adapted and published in book form by Prentice Hall:  Oppenheim, Alan, and George Verghese. Signals, Systems and Inference. Prentice Hall, 2015. textbook:Oppenheim, Alan, and Alan Willsky. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed. Nashua, NH: Athena Scientific, 2008. textbook:Buck, John, Michael Daniel, and Andrew Singer. Computer Explorations in Signals and Systems Using MATLAB. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2001. textbook:Strum, Robert, and Donald Kirk. Contemporary Linear Systems Using MATLAB. Belmont, CA: Brooks/Cole, 2000. textbook:Oppenheim, Alan, and Ronald Schafer. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2010. textbook:Ziemer, Roger. Elements of Engineering Probability and Statistics. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1997. textbook:Leon-Garcia, Alberto. Probability and Random Processes for Electrical Engineering. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1994. textbook:Helstrom, Carl. Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineers. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Macmillan, 1991. textbook:Yates, Roy, and David Goodman. Probability and Stochastic Processes: A Friendly Introduction for Electrical and Computer Engineers. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2005. textbook:Hsu, Hwei. Probability, Random Variables, and Random Processes. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2010. textbook:Ziemer, Rodger, and William Tranter. Principles of Communications: Systems, Modulation, and Noise. 5th ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Alan V. Oppenheim,  George Verghese term:Spring 2010 features:Online textbooks, Exams and solutions description:This course examines signals, systems and inference as unifying themes in communication, control and signal processing. Topics include input-output and state-space models of linear systems driven by deterministic and random signals; time- and transform-domain representations in discrete and continuous time; group delay; state feedback and observers; probabilistic models; stochastic processes, correlation functions, power spectra, spectral factorization; least-mean square error estimation; Wiener filtering; hypothesis testing; detection; matched filters.
6.011 | Introduction to Communication, Control, and Signal Processing (Spring 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-011-introduction-to-communication-control-and-signal-processing-spring-2004-spring-2005 | textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and A. S. Willsky, with H. Nawab. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River: Prentice-Hall, 1997. textbook:Bertsekas, D. P., and J. N. Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific Press, 2002. textbook:Sigmon, K., and T. A. Davis. MATLAB® Primer. 6th ed. New York, NY: Chapman and Hall/CRC Press, 2001. textbook:Buck, J. R., M. M. Daniel, and A. C. Singer. Computer Explorations in Signals and Systems Using MATLAB®. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2001. textbook:Strum, R. D., and D. E. Kirk. Contemporary Linear Systems Using MATLAB®. Thomson Learning, 1999. textbook:Ziemer, R. E. Elements of Engineering Probability and Statistics. Upper Saddle River: Prentice-Hall, Pearson Education, 1997. textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and R. W. Schafer, with J. R. Buck. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. Upper Saddle River: Prentice-Hall, 1999. textbook:Leon-Garcia, A. Probability and Random Processes for Electrical Engineering. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wellesley, 1994. textbook:Helstrom, C. W. Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineers. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall, NJ, 1991. textbook:Yates, R. D., and D. J. Goodman. Probability and Stochastic Processes: A Friendly Introduction for Electrical and Computer Engineers. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2004. textbook:Hsu, H. P. Schaum's Outline of Probability, Random Variables, and Random Processes. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:George Verghese,  Alan V. Oppenheim term:Spring 2004 features:Exams and solutions description:This course is taken mainly by undergraduates, and explores ideas involving signals, systems and probabilistic models in the context of communication, control and signal processing applications. The material expands out from the basics in 6.003 and 6.041. The treatment involves aspects of analysis, synthesis, and optimization. Topics covered differ somewhat from semester to semester, but typically include: random processes, correlations, spectral densities, state-space modeling, multirate processing, signal estimation and detection.
6.012 | Microelectronic Devices and Circuits (Fall 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-012-microelectronic-devices-and-circuits-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Clifton Fonstad, Jr. term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:6.012 is the header course for the department's "Devices, Circuits and Systems" concentration. The topics covered include modeling of microelectronic devices, basic microelectronic circuit analysis and design, physical electronics of semiconductor junction and MOS devices, relation of electrical behavior to internal physical processes, development of circuit models, and understanding the uses and limitations of various models. The course uses incremental and large-signal techniques to analyze and design bipolar and field effect transistor circuits, with examples chosen from digital circuits, single-ended and differential linear amplifiers, and other integrated circuits.
6.012 | Microelectronic Devices and Circuits (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-012-microelectronic-devices-and-circuits-spring-2009 | textbook:Howe, Roger, and Charles Sodini. Microelectronics: An Integrated Approach. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Charles Sodini,  Jing Kong,  Judy Hoyt,  Jesús del Alamo,  Akintunde (Tayo) Akinwande term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.012 is the header course for the department's &quot;Devices, Circuits and Systems&quot; concentration. The topics covered include: modeling of microelectronic devices, basic microelectronic circuit analysis and design, physical electronics of semiconductor junction and metal-on-silicon (MOS) devices, relation of electrical behavior to internal physical processes, development of circuit models, and understanding the uses and limitations of various models. The course uses incremental and large-signal techniques to analyze and design bipolar and field effect transistor circuits, with examples chosen from digital circuits, single-ended and differential linear amplifiers, and other integrated circuits.
6.012 | Microelectronic Devices and Circuits (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-012-microelectronic-devices-and-circuits-fall-2005 | textbook:All reading are in the course textbook: Howe, R. T., and C. G. Sodini. Microelectronics: An Integrated Approach. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jesús del Alamo term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Exams (no solutions) description:6.012 is the header course for the department's &quot;Devices, Circuits and Systems&quot; concentration. The topics covered include: modeling of microelectronic devices, basic microelectronic circuit analysis and design, physical electronics of semiconductor junction and MOS devices, relation of electrical behavior to internal physical processes, development of circuit models, and understanding the uses and limitations of various models. The course uses incremental and large-signal techniques to analyze and design bipolar and field effect transistor circuits, with examples chosen from digital circuits, single-ended and differential linear amplifiers, and other integrated circuits. This course is 12 units and is worth 4 Engineering Design Points.
6.013 | Electromagnetics and Applications (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-013-electromagnetics-and-applications-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:David Staelin term:Spring 2009 features:Demonstration - video, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course explores electromagnetic phenomena in modern applications, including wireless and optical communications, circuits, computer interconnects and peripherals, microwave communications and radar, antennas, sensors, micro-electromechanical systems, and power generation and transmission. Fundamentals include quasistatic and dynamic solutions to Maxwell's equations; waves, radiation, and diffraction; coupling to media and structures; guided waves; resonance; acoustic analogs; and forces, power, and energy.
6.013 | Electromagnetics and Applications (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-013-electromagnetics-and-applications-fall-2005 | textbook:H/M = Haus, Hermann A., and James R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1989. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Staelin<br/>(Contributor),  Erich Ippen<br/>(Contributor),  Markus Zahn term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course explores electromagnetic phenomena in modern applications, including wireless communications, circuits, computer interconnects and peripherals, optical fiber links and components, microwave communications and radar, antennas, sensors, micro-electromechanical systems, motors, and power generation and transmission. Fundamentals covered include: quasistatic and dynamic solutions to Maxwell's equations; waves, radiation, and diffraction; coupling to media and structures; guided and unguided waves; resonance; and forces, power, and energy.Acknowledgments The instructors would like to thank Robert Haussman for transcribing into LaTeX the problem set and Quiz 2 solutions.
6.02 | Introduction to EECS II: Digital Communication Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-02-introduction-to-eecs-ii-digital-communication-systems-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Hari Balakrishnan,  George Verghese term:Fall 2012 features:Video lectures, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:An introduction to several fundamental ideas in electrical engineering and computer science, using digital communication systems as the vehicle. The three parts of the course&mdash;bits, signals, and packets&mdash;cover three corresponding layers of abstraction that form the basis of communication systems like the Internet. The course teaches ideas that are useful in other parts of EECS: abstraction, probabilistic analysis, superposition, time and frequency-domain representations, system design principles and trade-offs, and centralized and distributed algorithms. The course emphasizes connections between theoretical concepts and practice using programming tasks and some experiments with real-world communication channels.
6.021J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
6.022J | Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-542j-quantitative-physiology-organ-transport-systems-spring-2004 | textbook:Listed below are also relevant sections from the course textbook:  Costanzo, Linda S. Physiology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jose Venegas,  Roger Mark term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course elaborates on the application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. It discusses mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. It also discusses anatomical, physiological, and pathophysiological features of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems. There is emphasis on those systems, features, and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences.
6.023J | Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-330j-fields-forces-and-flows-in-biological-systems-spring-2007 | textbook:TY & K:  Truskey, G. A., F. Yuan, and D. F. Katz. Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:H & M: Haus, H. A., and J. R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Probstein:  Probstein, R. F. Physiochemical Hydrodynamics: An Introduction. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2003. textbook:Jones:  Jones, T. B. Electromechanics of Particles. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Deen, W. "Stream Function." Section 5.9 in Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Deen, W. "Appendix A, Tables A-1 through A-4 (Vector Identity summary)." In Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Berg, H. C. "One-dimensional Random Walks." In Random Walks in Biology. 2nd ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jongyoon Han,  Scott Manalis term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces the basic driving forces for electric current, fluid flow, and mass transport, plus their application to a variety of biological systems. Basic mathematical and engineering tools will be introduced, in the context of biology and physiology. Various electrokinetic phenomena are also considered as an example of coupled nature of chemical-electro-mechanical driving forces. Applications include transport in biological tissues and across membranes, manipulation of cells and biomolecules, and microfluidics.
6.024J | Molecular, Cellular, and Tissue Biomechanics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-310j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-spring-2015 | textbook:[Phillips] =  Phillips, R., J. Kondev, and J. Theriot. Physical Biology of the Cell. Garland Science, 2008. textbook:[Howard] =  Howard, J. Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:[Jackson] =  Jackson, M. B. Molecular and Cellular Biophysics. Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:[Grodzinsky] =  Grodzinsky, A. Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems. Garland Science, 2011. textbook:[Lodish] =  Lodish, H., D. Baltimore, et al. Molecular Cell Biology. W. H. Freeman and Company, 2012. level:Undergraduate instructors:Roger Kamm,  Alan Grodzinsky term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum and statistical mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales, from molecular to cellular to tissue or organ level.
6.025J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
6.033 | Computer System Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-033-computer-system-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Saltzer, Jerome H., and M. Frans Kaashoek. Principles of Computer System Design: An Introduction, Part I. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2009. level:Undergraduate instructors:Robert Morris,  Samuel Madden term:Spring 2009 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course covers topics on the engineering of computer software and hardware systems: techniques for controlling complexity; strong modularity using client-server design, virtual memory, and threads; networks; atomicity and coordination of parallel activities; recovery and reliability; privacy, security, and encryption; and impact of computer systems on society. Case studies of working systems and readings from the current literature provide comparisons and contrasts. Two design projects are required, and students engage in extensive written communication exercises.
6.034 | Artificial Intelligence (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-034-artificial-intelligence-fall-2010 | textbook:Winston, Patrick Henry. Artificial Intelligence. 3rd ed. Addison-Wesley, 1992. level:Undergraduate instructors:Patrick Henry Winston term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Recitation videos, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course introduces students to the basic knowledge representation, problem solving, and learning methods of artificial intelligence. Upon completion of 6.034, students should be able to develop intelligent systems by assembling solutions to concrete computational problems; understand the role of knowledge representation, problem solving, and learning in intelligent-system engineering; and appreciate the role of problem solving, vision, and language in understanding human intelligence from a computational perspective.
6.034 | Artificial Intelligence (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-034-artificial-intelligence-spring-2005 | textbook:Russell, Stuart J., and Peter Norvig. Artificial intelligence: a modern approach. 2nd edition. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Leslie Kaelbling,  Tomás Lozano-Pérez term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course introduces representations, techniques, and architectures used to build applied systems and to account for intelligence from a computational point of view. This course also explores applications of rule chaining, heuristic search, logic, constraint propagation, constrained search, and other problem-solving paradigms. In addition, it covers applications of decision trees, neural nets, SVMs and other learning paradigms.
6.035 | Computer Language Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-035-computer-language-engineering-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Saman Amarasinghe,  Martin Rinard term:Spring 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Exams and solutions description:This course analyzes issues associated with the implementation of higher-level programming languages. Topics covered include: fundamental concepts, functions, and structures of compilers, the interaction of theory and practice, and using tools in building software. The course includes a multi-person project on compiler design and implementation.
6.035 | Computer Language Engineering (SMA 5502) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-035-computer-language-engineering-sma-5502-fall-2005 | textbook:Appel, Andrew W. Modern Compiler Implementation in Java®. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Aho, Alfred V., Ravi Sethi, and Jeffrey Ullman. Compilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1986. textbook:Muchnick, Steven. Advanced Compiler Design and Implementation. 1st ed. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 1997. textbook:Cooper, Keith, and Linda Torczon. Engineering a Compiler. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Martin Rinard,  Saman Amarasinghe term:Fall 2005 features:Selected video lectures, Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:6.035 is a course within the department's &quot;Computer Systems and Architecture&quot; concentration. This course analyzes issues associated with the implementation of high-level programming languages. Topics covered include: fundamental concepts, functions, and structures of compilers, basic program optimization techniques, the interaction of theory and practice, and using tools in building software. The course features a multi-person project on design and implementation of a compiler that is written in Java&reg; and generates MIPS executable machine code. This course is worth 8 Engineering Design Points.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5502 (Computer Language Engineering).
6.041 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied Probability (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-fall-2010 | textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed. Athena Scientific, 2008. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:John Tsitsiklis term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Welcome to 6.041/6.431, a subject on the modeling and analysis of random phenomena and processes, including the basics of statistical inference. Nowadays, there is broad consensus that the ability to think probabilistically is a fundamental component of scientific literacy. For example:      The concept of statistical significance (to be touched upon at the end of this course) is considered by the Financial Times as one of &quot;The Ten Things Everyone Should Know About Science&quot;.     A recent Scientific American article argues that statistical literacy is crucial in making health-related decisions.     Finally, an article in the New York Times identifies statistical data analysis as an upcoming profession, valuable everywhere, from Google and Netflix to the Office of Management and Budget.  The aim of this class is to introduce the relevant models, skills, and tools, by combining mathematics with conceptual understanding and intuition.
6.041 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied  Probability (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-spring-2006 | textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri P., and John N. Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific Press, June 2002. textbook:Drake, A. Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988. textbook:Ross, S. A First Course in Probability. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Munther Dahleh term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is offered both to undergraduates (6.041) and graduates (6.431), but the assignments differ. 6.041/6.431 introduces students to the modeling, quantification, and analysis of uncertainty. Topics covered include: formulation and solution in sample space, random variables, transform techniques, simple random processes and their probability distributions, Markov processes, limit theorems, and elements of statistical inference.
6.041SC | Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied Probability (Fall 2013) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041sc-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:John Tsitsiklis term:Fall 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:This course introduces students to the modeling, quantification, and analysis of uncertainty.&nbsp; The tools of probability theory, and of the related field of statistical inference, are the keys for being able to analyze and make sense of data. These tools underlie important advances in many fields, from the basic sciences to engineering and management.
6.042J | Mathematics for Computer Science (Spring 2015) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Albert R. Meyer,  Adam Chlipala term:Spring 2015 features:Video lectures, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This subject offers an interactive introduction to discrete mathematics oriented toward computer science and engineering. The subject coverage divides roughly into thirds:      Fundamental concepts of mathematics: Definitions, proofs, sets, functions, relations.     Discrete structures: graphs, state machines, modular arithmetic, counting.     Discrete probability theory.  On completion of 6.042J, students will be able to explain and apply the basic methods of discrete (noncontinuous) mathematics in computer science. They will be able to use these methods in subsequent courses in the design and analysis of algorithms, computability theory, software engineering, and computer systems.Interactive site components can be found on the Unit pages in the left-hand navigational bar, starting with Unit 1: Proofs.
6.042J | Mathematics for Computer Science (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Tom Leighton, Dr. Marten van  Dijk term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course covers elementary discrete mathematics for computer science and engineering. It emphasizes mathematical definitions and proofs as well as applicable methods. Topics include formal logic notation, proof methods; induction, well-ordering; sets, relations; elementary graph theory; integer congruences; asymptotic notation and growth of functions; permutations and combinations, counting principles; discrete probability. Further selected topics may also be covered, such as recursive definition and structural induction; state machines and invariants; recurrences; generating functions.
6.042J | Mathematics for Computer Science (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Ronitt Rubinfeld,  Albert R. Meyer term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This is an introductory course in Discrete Mathematics oriented toward Computer Science and Engineering. The course divides roughly into thirds:Fundamental Concepts of Mathematics: Definitions, Proofs, Sets, Functions, RelationsDiscrete Structures: Modular Arithmetic, Graphs, State Machines, CountingDiscrete Probability TheoryA version of this course from a&nbsp;previous term&nbsp;was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5512 (Mathematics for Computer Science).
6.045J | Automata, Computability, and Complexity | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-045j-automata-computability-and-complexity-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Scott Aaronson term:Spring 2011 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides a challenging introduction to some of the central ideas of theoretical computer science. Beginning in antiquity, the course will progress through finite automata, circuits and decision trees, Turing machines and computability, efficient algorithms and reducibility, the P versus NP problem, NP-completeness, the power of randomness, cryptography and one-way functions, computational learning theory, and quantum computing. It examines the classes of problems that can and cannot be solved by various kinds of machines. It tries to explain the key differences between computational models that affect their power.
6.046J | Design and Analysis of Algorithms (Spring 2015) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-design-and-analysis-of-algorithms-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Erik Demaine,  Srinivas Devadas,  Nancy Lynch term:Spring 2015 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This is an intermediate algorithms course with an emphasis on teaching techniques for the design and analysis of efficient algorithms, emphasizing methods of application. Topics include divide-and-conquer, randomization, dynamic programming, greedy algorithms, incremental improvement, complexity, and cryptography.
6.046J | Design and Analysis of Algorithms (Spring 2012) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-design-and-analysis-of-algorithms-spring-2012 | textbook:Dasgupta, Sanjoy, Christos Papadimitriou, and Umesh Vazirani. Algorithms. McGraw-Hill, 2006. textbook:Kleinberg, Jon, and Eva Tardos. Algorithm Design. Addison-Wesley, 2005. textbook:Bentley, Jon. Programming Pearls. Association for Computing Machinery, 1986. textbook:———. More Programming Pearls: Confessions of a Coder. Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:———. Writing Efficient Programs. Prentice-Hall, 1982. textbook:Skiena, Steven. The Algorithm Design Manual. Springer, 1997. textbook:Gonnet, Gaston. Handbook of Algorithms and Data Structures: Coded in Pascal and C. Addison-Wesley, 1984. textbook:Even, Shimon. Graph Algorithms. Computer Science Press, 1979. textbook:Garey, Michael, and David Johnson. Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness. W. H. Freeman, 1979. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Papadimitriou, Christos, and Kenneth Steiglitz. Combinatorial Optimization: Algorithms and Complexity. Prentice-Hall, 1981. textbook:Feller, William. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications. Wiley, 1968 (Volume 1), 1971 (Volume 2). textbook:Liu, Chung. Introduction to Combinatorial Mathematics. McGraw-Hill College, 1968. textbook:Niven, Ivan, and Herbert Zuckerman. An Introduction to the Theory of Numbers. John Wiley & Sons, 1991. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dana Moshkovitz,  Bruce Tidor term:Spring 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Techniques for the design and analysis of efficient algorithms, emphasizing methods useful in practice. Topics include sorting; search trees, heaps, and hashing; divide-and-conquer; dynamic programming; greedy algorithms; amortized analysis; graph algorithms; and shortest paths. Advanced topics may include network flow, computational geometry, number-theoretic algorithms, polynomial and matrix calculations, caching, and parallel computing.
6.046J | Introduction to Algorithms (SMA 5503) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-introduction-to-algorithms-sma-5503-fall-2005 | textbook:Cormen, Thomas, Charles Leiserson, Ronald Rivest, and Clifford Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 3rd ed. MIT Press, 2009. textbook:Aho, Alfred V., John E. Hopcroft, and Jeffrey D. Ullman. The Design and Analysis of Computer Algorithms. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1974. textbook:———. Data Structures and Algorithms. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1983. textbook:Baase, Sara. Computer Algorithms: Introduction to Design and Analysis. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:Bentley, Jon Louis. Programming Pearls. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1986. textbook:———. More Programming Pearls: Confessions of a Coder. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:———. Writing Efficient Programs. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1982. textbook:Brassard, Gilles, and Paul Bratley. Algorithmics: Theory and Practice. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1988. textbook:Chung, Kai Lai. Elementary Probability Theory with Stochastic Processes. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1974. textbook:Even, Shimon. Graph Algorithms. Rockville, MD: Computer Science Press, 1979. textbook:Feller, William. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications. 3rd ed. 2 vols. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1968, 1971. textbook:Garey, Michael R., and David S. Johnson. Computers and Intractibility: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness. San Francisco, CA: W. H. Freeman & Co., 1979. textbook:Gonnet, Gaston H. Handbook of Algorithms and Data Structures. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1984. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Horowitz, Ellis, and Sartaj Sahni. Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms. Potomac, MD: Computer Science Press, 1978. textbook:Kingston, Jeffrey H. Algorithms and Data Structures: Design, Correctness, Analysis. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., 1991. textbook:Knuth, Donald E. The Art of Computer Programming. 3rd ed. 3 vols. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1997. textbook:Lawler, Eugene L. Combinatorial Optimization: Networks and Matroids. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, 1976. textbook:Liu, Chung L. Introduction to Combinatorial Mathematics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1968. textbook:Manber, Udi. Introduction to Algorithms: A Creative Approach. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1989. textbook:Mehlhorn, Kurt. Data Structures and Algorithms. 3 vols. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1984. textbook:Niven, Ivan, and Herbert S. Zuckerman. An Introduction to the Theory of Numbers. 4th ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1980. textbook:Papadimitriou, Christos H., and Kenneth Steiglitz. Combinatorial Optimization: Algorithms and Complexity. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1982. textbook:Press, William P., Brian P. Flannery, Saul A. Teukolsky, and William T. Vetterling. Numerical Recipies in C: The Art of Scientific Computing. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1988. textbook:Reingold, Edwin M., Jurg Nievergelt, and Narsingh Deo. Combinatorial Algorithms: Theory and Practice. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1977. textbook:Sedgewick, Robert. Algorithms. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:Sipser, Michael. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing Company, 1997. textbook:Tarjan, Robert Endre. Data Structures and Network Algorithms. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1983. level:Undergraduate instructors:Charles Leiserson,  Erik Demaine term:Fall 2005 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course teaches techniques for the design and analysis of efficient algorithms, emphasizing methods useful in practice. Topics covered include: sorting; search trees, heaps, and hashing; divide-and-conquer; dynamic programming; amortized analysis; graph algorithms; shortest paths; network flow; computational geometry; number-theoretic algorithms; polynomial and matrix calculations; caching; and parallel computing.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5503 (Analysis and Design of Algorithms).
6.047 | Computational Biology (Fall 2015) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-047-computational-biology-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Manolis Kellis term:Fall 2015 features:Online textbooks, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers the algorithmic and machine learning foundations of computational biology combining theory with practice. We cover both foundational topics in computational biology, and current research frontiers. We study fundamental techniques, recent advances in the field, and work directly with current large-scale biological datasets.
6.050J | Information and Entropy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-050j-information-and-entropy-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Paul Penfield,  Seth Lloyd term:Spring 2008 features:Selected video lectures, Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions description:This course explores the ultimate limits to communication and computation, with an emphasis on the physical nature of information and information processing. Topics include: information and computation, digital signals, codes and compression, applications such as biological representations of information, logic circuits, computer architectures, and algorithmic information, noise, probability, error correction, reversible and irreversible operations, physics of computation, and quantum computation. The concept of entropy applied to channel capacity and to the second law of thermodynamics.
6.055J | The Art of Approximation in Science and Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-055j-the-art-of-approximation-in-science-and-engineering-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2008 features:Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions description:This course teaches simple reasoning techniques for complex phenomena: divide and conquer, dimensional analysis, extreme cases, continuity, scaling, successive approximation, balancing, cheap calculus, and symmetry. Applications are drawn from the physical and biological sciences, mathematics, and engineering. Examples include bird and machine flight, neuron biophysics, weather, prime numbers, and animal locomotion. Emphasis is on low-cost experiments to test ideas and on fostering curiosity about phenomena in the world.
6.061 | Introduction to Electric Power Systems (Spring 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-061-introduction-to-electric-power-systems-spring-2011 | textbook:Kirtley, James. Electric Power Principles: Sources, Conversion, Distribution and Use. Wiley, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:James L. Kirtley Jr. term:Spring 2011 features:Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is an introductory subject in the field of electric power systems and electrical to mechanical energy conversion. Electric power has become increasingly important as a way of transmitting and transforming energy in industrial, military and transportation uses. Electric power systems are also at the heart of alternative energy systems, including wind and solar electric, geothermal and small scale hydroelectric generation.
6.07J | Projects in Microscale Engineering for the Life Sciences | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-410j-projects-in-microscale-engineering-for-the-life-sciences-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman,  Martha Gray,  Alexander Aranyosi term:Spring 2007 features:Image galleries, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is a project-based introduction to manipulating and characterizing cells and biological molecules using microfabricated tools. It is designed for first year undergraduate students. In the first half of the term, students perform laboratory exercises designed to introduce (1) the design, manufacture, and use of microfluidic channels, (2) techniques for sorting and manipulating cells and biomolecules, and (3) making quantitative measurements using optical detection and fluorescent labeling. In the second half of the term, students work in small groups to design and test a microfluidic device to solve a real-world problem of their choosing. Includes exercises in written and oral communication and team building.
6.071J | Introduction to Electronics, Signals, and Measurement | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-071j-introduction-to-electronics-signals-and-measurement-spring-2006 | textbook:Horowitz, Paul, and Winfield Hill. The Art of Electronics. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1989. textbook:Blackburn, James. Modern Instrumentation for Scientists and Engineers. New York, NY: Springer, 2000. textbook:de Sa, A. Electronics for Scientists: Physical Principles with Applications to Instrumentation. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1997. textbook:Alexander, Charles, and Matthew Sadiku. Fundamentals of Electric Circuits. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2004. textbook:Hambley, Allan. Electronics. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1999. textbook:Neamen, Donald. Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2001. textbook:Haykin, Simon, and Barry Van Veen. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Cory,  Ian Hutchinson<br/>(Lecturer),  Manos Chaniotakis term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The course is designed to provide a practical - hands on - introduction to electronics with a focus on measurement and signals. The prerequisites are courses in differential equations, as well as electricity and magnetism. No prior experience with electronics is necessary. The course will integrate demonstrations and laboratory examples with lectures on the foundations. Throughout the course we will use modern "virtual instruments" as test-beds for understanding electronics. The aim of the course is to provide students with the practical knowledge necessary to work in a modern science or engineering setting.
6.073 | Creating Video Games | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/comparative-media-studies-writing/cms-611j-creating-video-games-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Philip B. Tan,  Richard Eberhardt,  Sara Verrilli,  Andrew Grant term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:CMS.611J / 6.073 Creating Video Games is a class that introduces students to the complexities of working in small, multidisciplinary teams to develop video games. Students will learn creative design and production methods, working together in small teams to design, develop, and thoroughly test their own original digital games. Design iteration across all aspects of video game development (game design, audio design, visual aesthetics, fiction and programming) will be stressed. Students will also be required to focus test their games, and will need to support and challenge their game design decisions with appropriate focus testing and data analysis.
6.079 | Introduction to Convex Optimization (Fall 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-079-introduction-to-convex-optimization-fall-2009 | textbook:Boyd, Stephen, and Lieven Vanderberghe. Convex Optimization. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri. Convex Optimization Theory. Nashua, NH: Athena Scientific, 2009. textbook:Ben-Tal, Aharon, and Arkadi Nemirovski. Lectures on Modern Convex Optimization: Analysis, Algorithms, and Engineering Applications (MPS-SIAM Series on Optimization). Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial Mathematics, 2001. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Stephen Boyd,  Pablo Parrilo term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course aims to give students the tools and training to recognize convex optimization problems that arise in scientific and engineering applications, presenting the basic theory, and concentrating on modeling aspects and results that are useful in applications. Topics include convex sets, convex functions, optimization problems, least-squares, linear and quadratic programs, semidefinite programming, optimality conditions, and duality theory. Applications to signal processing, control, machine learning, finance, digital and analog circuit design, computational geometry, statistics, and mechanical engineering are presented. Students complete hands-on exercises using high-level numerical software. Acknowledgements The course materials were developed jointly by Prof. Stephen Boyd (Stanford), who was a visiting professor at MIT when this course was taught, and Prof. Lieven Vanderberghe (UCLA).
6.080 | Great Ideas in Theoretical Computer Science (Spring 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-080-great-ideas-in-theoretical-computer-science-spring-2008 | textbook:Sipser, Michael. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Course Technology, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Scott Aaronson term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course provides a challenging introduction to some of the central ideas of theoretical computer science. It attempts to present a vision of "computer science beyond computers": that is, CS as a set of mathematical tools for understanding complex systems such as universes and minds. Beginning in antiquity&mdash;with Euclid's algorithm and other ancient examples of computational thinking&mdash;the course will progress rapidly through propositional logic, Turing machines and computability, finite automata, G&ouml;del's theorems, efficient algorithms and reducibility, NP-completeness, the P versus NP problem, decision trees and other concrete computational models, the power of randomness, cryptography and one-way functions, computational theories of learning, interactive proofs, and quantum computing and the physical limits of computation. Class participation is essential, as the class will include discussion and debate about the implications of many of these ideas.
6.087 | Practical Programming in C | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-087-practical-programming-in-c-january-iap-2010 | textbook:Kernighan, Brian, and Dennis Ritchie. The C Programming Language. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1988. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Weller,  Sharat Chikkerur term:January IAP 2010 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions description:This course provides a thorough introduction to the C programming language, the workhorse of the UNIX operating system and lingua franca of embedded processors and micro-controllers. The first two weeks will cover basic syntax and grammar, and expose students to practical programming techniques. The remaining lectures will focus on more advanced concepts, such as dynamic memory allocation, concurrency and synchronization, UNIX signals and process control, library development and usage. Daily programming assignments and weekly laboratory exercises are required. Knowledge of C is highly marketable for summer internships, UROPs, and full-time positions in software and embedded systems development.
6.088 | Introduction to C Memory Management and C++ Object-Oriented Programming | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-088-introduction-to-c-memory-management-and-c-object-oriented-programming-january-iap-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Eunsuk Kang,  Jean Yang term:January IAP 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Ever hang your head in shame after your Python program wasn't as fast as your friend's C program? Ever wish you could use objects without having to use Java? Join us for this fun introduction to C and C++! We will take you through a tour that will start with writing simple C programs, go deep into the caves of C memory manipulation, resurface with an introduction to using C++ classes, dive deeper into advanced C++ class use and the C++ Standard Template Libraries. We'll wrap up by teaching you some tricks of the trade that you may need for tech interviews. We see this as a &quot;C/C++ empowerment&quot; course: we want you to come away understanding  why you would want to use C over another language (control over memory, probably for performance reasons), why you would want to use C++ rather than C (objects), and how to be useful in C and C++.  This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.089 | Great Ideas in Theoretical Computer Science (Spring 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-080-great-ideas-in-theoretical-computer-science-spring-2008 | textbook:Sipser, Michael. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Course Technology, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Scott Aaronson term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course provides a challenging introduction to some of the central ideas of theoretical computer science. It attempts to present a vision of "computer science beyond computers": that is, CS as a set of mathematical tools for understanding complex systems such as universes and minds. Beginning in antiquity&mdash;with Euclid's algorithm and other ancient examples of computational thinking&mdash;the course will progress rapidly through propositional logic, Turing machines and computability, finite automata, G&ouml;del's theorems, efficient algorithms and reducibility, NP-completeness, the P versus NP problem, decision trees and other concrete computational models, the power of randomness, cryptography and one-way functions, computational theories of learning, interactive proofs, and quantum computing and the physical limits of computation. Class participation is essential, as the class will include discussion and debate about the implications of many of these ideas.
6.090 | Building Programming Experience: A Lead-In to 6.001 | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-090-building-programming-experience-a-lead-in-to-6-001-january-iap-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Benjamin Vandiver term:January IAP 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course will serve as a two-week aggressively gentle introduction to programming for those students who lack background in the field. Specifically targeted at students with little or no programming experience, the course seeks to reach students who intend to take 6.001 and feel they would struggle because they lack the necessary background. The main focus of the subject will be acquiring programming experience: instruction in programming fundamentals coupled with lots of practice problems. Lots of programming required, but lots of support provided.
6.091 | Hands-On Introduction to Electrical Engineering Lab Skills | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-091-hands-on-introduction-to-electrical-engineering-lab-skills-january-iap-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Gim Hom term:January IAP 2008 features:Lecture notes description:This course introduces students to both passive and active electronic components (op-amps, 555 timers, TTL digital circuits). Basic analog and digital circuits and theory of operation are covered. The labs allow the students to master the use of electronic instruments and construct and/or solder several circuits. The labs also reinforce the concepts discussed in class with a hands-on approach and allow the students to gain significant experience with electrical instruments such as function generators, digital multimeters, oscilloscopes, logic analyzers and power supplies. In the last lab, the students build an electronic circuit that they can keep. The course is geared to freshmen and others who want an introduction to electronics circuits. This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.092 | Introduction to Programming in Java | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-092-introduction-to-programming-in-java-january-iap-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Evan Jones,  Adam Marcus,  Eugene Wu term:January IAP 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to software engineering, using the Java&trade; programming language. It covers concepts useful to 6.005. Students will learn the fundamentals of Java. The focus is on developing high quality, working software that solves real problems.The course is designed for students with some programming experience, but if you have none and are motivated you will do fine. Students who have taken 6.005 should not take this course. Each class is composed of one hour of lecture and one hour of assisted lab work.This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.092 | Java Preparation for 6.170 | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-092-java-preparation-for-6-170-january-iap-2006 | textbook:Flanagan, David. Java™ in a Nutshell. 5th ed. Cambridge, MA: O'Reilly, 2005. textbook:Flanagan, David, and Brett McLaughlin. Java™ 1.5 Tiger: A Developer's Notebook. Cambridge, MA: O'Reilly, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Corey McCaffrey,  Justin Mazzola Paluska,  Lucy Mendel,  Ray He,  Robert Toscano,  Scott Ostler term:January IAP 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course focuses on introducing the language, libraries, tools and concepts of JavaTM. The course is specifically targeted at students who intend to take 6.170 in the following term and feel they would struggle because they lack the necessary background. Topics include: Object-oriented programming, primitives, arrays, objects, inheritance, interfaces, polymorphism, hashing, data structures, collections, nested classes, floating point precision, defensive programming, and depth-first search algorithm.
6.092 | Bioinformatics and Proteomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-092-bioinformatics-and-proteomics-january-iap-2005 | textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., A. S. Willsky, and H. Nawab. Signals and Systems. 3rd ed. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1997. textbook:Papoulis, A., and S. U. Pillai. Probability, Random Variables and Stochastic Processes: Sanitary and Water Resources Engineering (Sanitary & Water Resources Engineering S). New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2002. textbook:Kohane, I. S., A. T. Kho, and A. J. Butte. Microarrays for an Integrative Genomics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Gil Alterovitz,  Manolis Kellis,  Marco Ramoni term:January IAP 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This interdisciplinary course provides a hands-on approach to students in the topics of bioinformatics and proteomics. Lectures and labs cover sequence analysis, microarray expression analysis, Bayesian methods, control theory, scale-free networks, and biotechnology applications. Designed for those with a computational and/or engineering background, it will include current real-world examples, actual implementations, and engineering design issues. Where applicable, engineering issues from signal processing, network theory, machine learning, robotics and other domains will be expounded upon.
6.094 | Introduction to MATLAB | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-094-introduction-to-matlab-january-iap-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Danilo Šćepanović term:January IAP 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides an aggressively gentle introduction to MATLAB&reg;. It is designed to give students fluency in MATLAB, including popular toolboxes. The course consists of interactive lectures with students doing sample MATLAB problems in real time. Problem-based MATLAB assignments are given which require significant time on MATLAB. This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month. Acknowledgements The 6.094 course materials were developed by Danilo Šćepanović, Sourav R. Dey, Ankit Patel, and Patrick Ho.
6.096 | Introduction to C++ | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-096-introduction-to-c-january-iap-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jesse Dunietz,  Geza Kovacs,  John Marrero term:January IAP 2011 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This is a fast-paced introductory course to the C++ programming language. It is intended for those with little programming background, though prior programming experience will make it easier, and those with previous experience will still learn C++-specific constructs and concepts. This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.096 | Algorithms for Computational Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-096-algorithms-for-computational-biology-spring-2005 | textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Waterman, Michael. Introduction to Computational Biology: Maps, Sequences, and Genomes. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 1995. textbook:Durbin, Richard, Graeme Mitchison, S. Eddy, A. Krogh, and G. Mitchison. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Jones, Neil, and Pavel Pevzner. An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press , 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Manolis Kellis term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is offered to undergraduates and addresses several algorithmic challenges in computational biology. The principles of algorithmic design for biological datasets are studied and existing algorithms analyzed for application to real datasets. Topics covered include: biological sequence analysis, gene identification, regulatory motif discovery, genome assembly, genome duplication and rearrangements, evolutionary theory, clustering algorithms, and scale-free networks.
6.097 | Fundamentals of Photonics: Quantum Electronics (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-974-fundamentals-of-photonics-quantum-electronics-spring-2006 | textbook:Saleh, B. E. A., and M. C. Teich. Fundamentals of Photonics. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1991. textbook:Hecht, E., and A. Zajac. Optics. 3rd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1997. textbook:Griffiths, D. Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1995. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, C., B. Diu, and F. Laloe. Quantum Mechanics I. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1992. textbook:Yariv, A. Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1997. textbook:Svelto, O. Principles of Lasers. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. textbook:Haus, H. A. Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1983. textbook:Allen, L., and J. H. Eberly. Optical Resonance and Two-Level Atoms. New ed. New York, NY: Dover, 1987. textbook:Liu, Jia-Ming. Photonic Devices. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Meystre, P., and M. Sargent, III. Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1986. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Franz Kärtner term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This course explores the fundamentals of optical and optoelectronic phenomena and devices based on classical and quantum properties of radiation and matter culminating in lasers and applications. Fundamentals include: Maxwell's electromagnetic waves, resonators and beams, classical ray optics and optical systems, quantum theory of light, matter and its interaction, classical and quantum noise, lasers and laser dynamics, continuous wave and short pulse generation, light modulation; examples from integrated optics and semiconductor optoelectronics and nonlinear optics.
6.099 | Street-Fighting Mathematics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-098-street-fighting-mathematics-january-iap-2008 | textbook:Mahajan, Sanjoy. Street-Fighting Mathematics: The Art of Educated Guessing and Opportunistic Problem Solving. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:January IAP 2008 features:Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions description:This course teaches the art of guessing results and solving problems without doing a proof or an exact calculation. Techniques include extreme-cases reasoning, dimensional analysis, successive approximation, discretization, generalization, and pictorial analysis. Applications include mental calculation, solid geometry, musical intervals, logarithms, integration, infinite series, solitaire, and differential equations. (No epsilons or deltas are harmed by taking this course.) This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.101 | Introductory Analog Electronics Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-101-introductory-analog-electronics-laboratory-spring-2007 | textbook:Neamen, Donald. Microelectronic Circuit Analysis and Design. 3rd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2006. textbook:[J&J] Johnson, D. E., and V. Jayakumar. Operational Amplifier Circuits. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1982. textbook:Cathey, Jimmie J. Schaum's Outlines Electronic Devices and Circuits. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ron Roscoe term:Spring 2007 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:6.101 is an introductory experimental laboratory that explores the design, construction, and debugging of analog electronic circuits. Lectures and six laboratory projects investigate the performance characteristics of diodes, transistors, JFETs, and op-amps, including the construction of a small audio amplifier and preamplifier. Seven weeks are devoted to the design and implementation, and written and oral presentation of a project in an environment similar to that of engineering design teams in industry. The course provides opportunity to simulate real-world problems and solutions that involve trade offs and the use of engineering judgment. Engineers from local analog engineering companies come to campus to help students with their design projects.
6.111 | Introductory Digital Systems Laboratory (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-111-introductory-digital-systems-laboratory-spring-2006 | textbook:Katz, Randy, and Gaetano Borriello. Contemporary Logic Design. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2004. textbook:Palnitkar, Samir. Verilog® HDL. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Anantha Chandrakasan term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:6.111 is reputed to be one of the most demanding classes at MIT, exhausting many students' time and creativity. The course covers digital design topics such as digital logic, sequential building blocks, finite-state machines, FPGAs, timing and synchronization. The semester begins with lectures and problem sets, to introduce fundamental topics before students embark on lab assignments and ultimately, a digital design project. The students design and implement a final digital project of their choice, in areas such as games, music, digital filters, wireless communications, video, and graphics. The course relies on extensive use of Verilog&reg; for describing and implementing digital logic designs on state-of-the-art FPGA.
6.111 | Introductory Digital Systems Laboratory (Fall 2002) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-111-introductory-digital-systems-laboratory-fall-2002 | textbook:Skahill, Kevin. VHDL for Programmable Logic. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. textbook:Pellerin, David, and Taylor, Douglas. VHDL Made Easy. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. textbook:Ott, Douglas E. and Thomas J. Wilderotter. A Designer's Guide to VHDL Synthesis. New York, NY: Springer, 1994. textbook:Fletcher, W. I. An Engineering Approach to Digital Design. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1980. textbook:Mano, M. Morris. Computer Engineering: Hardware Design. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1988. level:Undergraduate instructors:Don Troxel,  James L. Kirtley Jr. term:Fall 2002 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:6.111 consists of lectures and labs on digital logic, flipflops, PALs, counters, timing, synchronization, finite-state machines, and microprogrammed systems. Students are expected to design and implement a final project of their choice: games, music, digital filters, graphics, etc. The course requires extensive use of VHDL for describing and implementing digital logic designs. 6.111 is worth 12 Engineering Design Points.
6.152J | Micro/Nano Processing Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-152j-micro-nano-processing-technology-fall-2005 | textbook:Plummer, James, Michael Deal, and Peter Griffin. Silicon VLSI Technology: Fundamentals, Practice, and Modeling. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. textbook:Campbell, Stephen. The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Wolf, Stanley, and Richard Tauber. Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era. Vol. 1. Sunset Beach, CA: Lattice Press, 1986. textbook:Sze, Simon. VLSI Technology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988. textbook:Ghandi, Sorab. VLSI Fabrication Principles: Silicon and Gallium Arsenide. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1994. textbook:Pierret, Robert, and Gerold Neudeck. Modular Series on Solid State Devices. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1982. textbook:Grove, A. S. Physics and Technology of Semiconductor Devices. New York, NY: Wiley, 1967. textbook:Colclaser, R. A. Microelectronics Processing and Device Design. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. textbook:Vossen, John, and Werner Kern. Thin Film Processes. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1978. textbook:Mayer, James, and Sylvanus Lau. Electronic Materials Science: For Integrated Circuits in Si and GaAs. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Murarka, Shyam, and Martin Peckerar. Electronic Materials: Science and Technology. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Ohring, Milton. The Materials Science of Thin Films. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2001. textbook:Senturia, Stephen. Microsystem Design. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. textbook:Madou, Marc. Fundamentals of Microfabrication: The Science of Miniaturization. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2002. textbook:Kovacs, Gregory. Micromachined Transducers Sourcebook. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1998. textbook:May, G. S., and S. Sze. Fundamentals of Semiconductor Fabrication. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2003. textbook:Smith, D. L. Thin Film Deposition: Principles and Practice. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1995. textbook:Perleman, Leslie, and Edward Barrett. The Mayfield Handbook of Technical & Scientific Writing. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1997. level:Undergraduate instructors:Martin Schmidt,  Susan Ruff, Dr. Robert O’Handley term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course introduces the theory and technology of micro/nano fabrication. Lectures and laboratory sessions focus on basic processing techniques such as diffusion, oxidation, photolithography, chemical vapor deposition, and more. Through team lab assignments, students are expected to gain an understanding of these processing techniques, and how they are applied in concert to device fabrication. Students enrolled in this course have a unique opportunity to fashion and test micro/nano-devices, using modern techniques and technology.
6.161 | Modern Optics Project Laboratory (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-161-modern-optics-project-laboratory-fall-2005 | textbook:Goodman, Joseph W. Introduction to Fourier Optics. 3rd ed. Englewood, CO: Roberts and Co., 2005. textbook:Yariv, Amnon. Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1997. textbook:Saleh, B., and M. Teich. Fundamentals of Photonics. New York, NY: Wiley, 1991. textbook:Hecht, E. Optics. 4th ed. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 2002. textbook:Born, M., and E. Wolf. Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 5th ed. New York, NY: Pergamon Press, 1975. textbook:———. Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 6th ed. New York, NY: Pergamon Press, 1980. textbook:———. Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 7th ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1999. textbook:Jenkins, F. A., and H. E. White. Fundamentals of Optics. 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1976. level:Undergraduate instructors:Cardinal Warde,  David Dunmeyer<br/>(Contributor) term:Fall 2005 features:Projects (no examples) description:6.161 offers an introduction to laboratory optics, optical principles, and optical devices and systems. This course covers a wide range of topics, including: polarization properties of light, reflection and refraction, coherence and interference, Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, holography, imaging and transforming properties of lenses, spatial filtering, two-lens coherent optical processor, optical properties of materials, lasers, electro-optic, acousto-optic and liquid-crystal light modulators, optical detectors, optical waveguides and fiber-optic communication systems. Students engage in extensive oral and written communication exercises. There are 12 engineering design points associated with this subject.
6.163 | Strobe Project Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-163-strobe-project-laboratory-fall-2005 | textbook:Horenstein, Henry, and Carol Keller. Black and White Photography: A Basic Manual. 2nd revised ed. New York, NY: Little Brown, 1983. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. James Bales term:Fall 2005 features:Demonstration - video, Image galleries, Projects and examples, Exams and solutions description:This is a laboratory experience course with a focus on photography, electronic imaging, and light measurement, much of it at short duration. In addition to teaching these techniques, the course provides students with experience working in a laboratory and teaches good work habits and techniques for approaching laboratory work. A major purpose of 6.163 is to provide students with many opportunities to sharpen their communication skills: oral, written, and visual.
6.170 | Software Studio | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-170-software-studio-spring-2013 | textbook:Crockford, Douglas. JavaScript: The Good Parts. O'Reilly Media, 2008. textbook:Fernandez, Obie. The Rails 3 Way. 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2010. textbook:Fulton, Hal. The Ruby Way, Second Edition. 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2006. textbook:Stefanov, Stoyan. JavaScript Patterns. O'Reilly Media, 2010. textbook:Dikstra, E. W. "On the Role of Scientific Thought." In Selected Writings on Computing: A Personal Perspective. Springer, 1982, pp. 60–6. textbook:Fowler, Martin. "The Three Principal Layers." Chapter 1 in Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2002. textbook:———. "Model View Controller." Chapter 14 in Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture. Addison-Wesley Professional, 2002. textbook:Benson, Edward. "Resources and REST." Chapter 6 in Art of Rails (Programmer to Programmer). Wrox, 2008. textbook:Jackson, Michael A. "Brilliance." In Software Requirements and Specifications: A Lexicon of Practice, Principles and Prejudices. Addison-Wesley Professional, 1995, p. 20. textbook:Zalewski, Michal. "Security in the World of Web Applications." Chapter 1 in Tangled Web: A Guide to Securing Modern Web Applications. No Starch Press, 2011, pp. 14–8. textbook:Brooks, Frederick P., Jr. "Plan to Throw One Away." Chapter 18 in The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering. Addison-Wesley, 1975. textbook:Duarte, Nancy. Resonate: Present Visual Stories that Transform Audiences. Wiley, 2010, pp. 110–15. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Jackson term:Spring 2013 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course on software engineering covers design and implementation of medium-scale software systems, using web applications as a platform. In the course, students learn the fundamentals of structuring a web application and writing modular code, with an emphasis on conceptual design to achieve clarity, simplicity, and modularity. Topics also include functional programming, relational databases, and security.
6.170 | Laboratory in Software Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-170-laboratory-in-software-engineering-fall-2005 | textbook:Liskov, Barbara, and John Guttag. Program Development in Java: Abstraction, Specification, and Object-Oriented Design. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2000. textbook:Bloch, Joshua. Effective Java: Programming Language Guide. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2001. textbook:Gamma, Erich, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, and John Vlissides. Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1995. textbook:Fowler, Martin. Analysis Patterns: Reusable Object Models. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Professional, 1996. textbook:———. Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1999. textbook:Jackson, Michael. Software Requirements and Specifications. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley and ACM Press, 1995. textbook:Horton, Ivor. Beginning Java 2: JDK 5 Edition. New York, NY: Wiley Publishing, 2004. textbook:Flanagan, David, and Brett McLaughlin. Java 1.5 Tiger: A Developer's Notebook. Cambridge, MA: O'Reilly Publishing, 2004. textbook:Bloch, Joshua, and Neal Gafter. Java Puzzlers: Traps, Pitfalls, and Corner Cases. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Professional, 2005. textbook:Arnold, Ken, James Gosling, and David Holmes. The Java Programming Language. 3rd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2000. textbook:Gosling, James, Bill Joy, and Guy Steele. The Java Language Specification. 3rd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2005. textbook:Flanagan, David. Java in a Nutshell. 4th ed. Cambridge, MA: O'Reilly Publishing, 2002. textbook:Eckel, Bruce. Thinking in Java. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Jackson,  Srinivas Devadas term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces concepts and techniques relevant to the production of large software systems. Students are taught a programming method based on the recognition and description of useful abstractions. Topics include modularity, specification, data abstraction, object modeling, design patterns, and testing. Students complete several programming projects of varying size, working individually and in groups. Students are now introduced to software engineering in 6.005 Elements of Software Construction, which is available on OCW in two versions, as taught in Fall 2008 and Fall 2011.
6.171 | Software Engineering for Web Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-171-software-engineering-for-web-applications-fall-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Harold Abelson, Dr. Philip Greenspun term:Fall 2003 features:Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.171&nbsp;is a course for students who already have some programming and software engineering experience. The goal is to give students some experience in dealing with those challenges that are unique to Internet applications, such as:  concurrency; unpredictable load; security risks; opportunity for wide-area distributed computing; creating a reliable and stateful user experience on top of unreliable connections and stateless protocols; extreme requirements and absurd development schedules; requirements that change mid-way through a project, sometimes because of experience gained from testing with users; user demands for a multi-modal interface. 
6.172 | Performance Engineering of Software Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-172-performance-engineering-of-software-systems-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Saman Amarasinghe,  Charles Leiserson term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Projects (no examples) description:Modern computing platforms provide unprecedented amounts of raw computational power. But significant complexity comes along with this power, to the point that making useful computations exploit even a fraction of the potential of the computing platform is a substantial challenge. Indeed, obtaining good performance requires a comprehensive understanding of all layers of the underlying platform, deep insight into the computation at hand, and the ingenuity and creativity required to obtain an effective mapping of the computation onto the machine. The reward for mastering these sophisticated and challenging topics is the ability to make computations that can process large amount of data orders of magnitude more quickly and efficiently and to obtain results that are unavailable with standard practice.This class is a hands-on, project-based introduction to building scalable and high-performance software systems. Topics include performance analysis, algorithmic techniques for high performance, instruction-level optimizations, cache and memory hierarchy optimization, parallel programming, and building scalable distributed systems.The course also includes design reviews with industry mentors, as described in this MIT News article.
6.186 | Mobile Autonomous Systems Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-186-mobile-autonomous-systems-laboratory-january-iap-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:This course is run by students, so there is no faculty member associated with this class. term:January IAP 2005 features:Lecture notes description:MASLab (Mobile Autonomous System Laboratory), also known as 6.186, is a robotics contest. The contest takes place during MIT's Independent Activities Period and participants earn 6 units of P/F credit and 6 Engineering Design Points. Teams of three to four students have less than a month to build and program sophisticated robots which must explore an unknown playing field and perform a series of tasks.MASLab provides a significantly more difficult robotics problem than many other university-level robotics contests. Although students know the general size, shape, and color of the floors and walls, the students do not know the exact layout of the playing field. In addition, MASLab robots are completely autonomous, or in other words, the robots operate, calculate, and plan without human intervention. Finally, MASLab is one of the few robotics contests in the country to use a vision based robotics problem.
6.189 | A Gentle Introduction to Programming Using Python (January IAP 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-189-a-gentle-introduction-to-programming-using-python-january-iap-2011 | textbook:Downey, Allen, Jeffrey Elkner, and Chris Meyers. How to Think Like a Computer Scientist: Learning with Python. Green Tea Press, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sarina Canelake term:January IAP 2011 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course will provide a gentle, yet intense, introduction to programming using Python for highly motivated students with little or no prior experience in programming. The course will focus on planning and organizing programs, as well as the grammar of the Python programming language. The course is designed to help prepare students for 6.01 Introduction to EECS I. 6.01 assumes some knowledge of Python upon entering; the course material for 6.189 has been specially designed to make sure that concepts important to 6.01 are covered. This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.189 | A Gentle Introduction to Programming Using Python (January IAP 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-189-a-gentle-introduction-to-programming-using-python-january-iap-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Mihir Kedia,  Aseem Kishore term:January IAP 2008 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions description:This course will provide a gentle introduction to programming using Python&trade; for highly motivated students with little or no prior experience in programming computers. The course will focus on planning and organizing programs, as well as the grammar of the Python programming language. Lectures will be interactive featuring in-class exercises with lots of support from the course staff.This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.189 | Multicore Programming Primer | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-189-multicore-programming-primer-january-iap-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Rodric Rabbah,  Saman Amarasinghe term:January IAP 2007 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Class competition - video, Special feature - video, Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:The course serves as an introductory course in parallel programming. It offers a series of lectures on parallel programming concepts as well as a group project providing hands-on experience with parallel programming. The students will have the unique opportunity to use the cutting-edge PLAYSTATION 3 development platform as they learn how to design and implement exciting applications for multicore architectures. At the end of the course, students will have an understanding of:Fundamental design philosophies that multicore architectures address.Parallel programming philosophies and emerging best practices.This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month. The course can be tailored to a normal semester time line.AcknowledgementsThe course instructors are extremely grateful to Sony, IBM, and Toshiba for their support.
6.207J | Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-15j-networks-fall-2009 | textbook:[EK] =  Easley, David, and Jon Kleinberg. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning about a Highly Connected World. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2010. textbook:[Jackson] =  Jackson, Matthew O. Social and Economic Networks. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:[Osborne] =  Osborne, Martin J. Introduction to Game Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:[Gibbons] =  Gibbons, Robert. Game Theory for Applied Economists. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1992. textbook:[Gladwell] =  Gladwell, Malcom. The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference. Boston, MA: Little, Brown and Co, 2002. textbook:[Surowiecki] =  Surowiecki, James. The Wisdom of Crowds: Why the Many Are Smarter Than the Few and How Collective Wisdom Sharpens Business, Economies, Societies, and Nations. New York, NY: Doubleday Publishing, 2004. textbook:[Barabasi] =  Barabasi, Albert-Laszlo. Linked: How Everything Is Connected to Everything Else and What It Means for Business, Science, and Everyday Life. New York, NY: Penguin, 2003. textbook:[Schelling] =  Schelling, Thomas C. Micromotives and Macrobehavior. Revised ed. New York, NY: W.W. Norton and Co., 2006. textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daron Acemoglu,  Asu Ozdaglar term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Networks are ubiquitous in our modern society. The World Wide Web that links us to and enables information flows with the rest of the world is the most visible example. It is, however, only one of many networks within which we are situated. Our social life is organized around networks of friends and colleagues. These networks determine our information, influence our opinions, and shape our political attitudes. They also link us, often through important but weak ties, to everybody else in the United States and in the world. Economic and financial markets also look much more like networks than anonymous marketplaces. Firms interact with the same suppliers and customers and use Web-like supply chains. Financial linkages, both among banks and between consumers, companies and banks, also form a network over which funds flow and risks are shared. Systemic risk in financial markets often results from the counterparty risks created within this financial network. Food chains, interacting biological systems and the spread and containment of epidemics are some of the other natural and social phenomena that exhibit a marked networked structure.This course will introduce the tools for the study of networks. It will show how certain common principles permeate the functioning of these diverse networks and how the same issues related to robustness, fragility, and interlinkages arise in several different types of networks.
6.270 | Autonomous Robot Design Competition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-270-autonomous-robot-design-competition-january-iap-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:This course is run by students, so there is no faculty member associated with this class. term:January IAP 2005 features:Class competition - video, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:6.270 is a hands-on, learn-by-doing class, in which participants design and build a robot that will play in a competition at the end of January. The goal for the students is to design a machine that will be able to navigate its way around the playing surface, recognize other opponents, and manipulate game objects. Unlike the machines in&nbsp;Design and&nbsp;Manufacturing I&nbsp;(2.007), 6.270 robots are totally autonomous, so once a round begins, there is no human intervention.The goal of 6.270 is to teach students about robotic design by giving them the hardware, software, and information they need to design, build, and debug their own robot. The subject includes concepts and applications that are related to various MIT classes (e.g. 6.001, 6.002, 6.004, and 2.007), though there are no formal prerequisites for 6.270.
6.338J | Parallel Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-337j-parallel-computing-fall-2011 | level:Graduate instructors:Alan Edelman term:Fall 2011 features:Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:This is an advanced interdisciplinary introduction to applied parallel computing on modern supercomputers. It has a hands-on emphasis on understanding the realities and myths of what is possible on the world's fastest machines. We will make prominent use of the Julia Language, a free, open-source, high-performance dynamic programming language for technical computing.
6.370 | The Battlecode Programming Competition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-370-the-battlecode-programming-competition-january-iap-2013 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Maxwell Mann term:January IAP 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript description:This course is conducted as an artificial intelligence programming contest in Java. Students work in teams to program virtual robots to play Battlecode, a real-time strategy game. Optional lectures are provided on topics and programming practices relevant to the game, and students learn and improve their programming skills experientially. The competition culminates in a live Battlecode tournament. This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.370 | Robocraft Programming Competition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-370-robocraft-programming-competition-january-iap-2005 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Michael Ernst term:January IAP 2005 features: description:The 6.370 Robocraft programming competition is a unique challenge that combines battle strategy and software engineering. In short, the objective is to write the best player program for the computer game Robocraft.
6.521J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
6.637 | Modern Optics Project Laboratory (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-161-modern-optics-project-laboratory-fall-2005 | textbook:Goodman, Joseph W. Introduction to Fourier Optics. 3rd ed. Englewood, CO: Roberts and Co., 2005. textbook:Yariv, Amnon. Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1997. textbook:Saleh, B., and M. Teich. Fundamentals of Photonics. New York, NY: Wiley, 1991. textbook:Hecht, E. Optics. 4th ed. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 2002. textbook:Born, M., and E. Wolf. Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 5th ed. New York, NY: Pergamon Press, 1975. textbook:———. Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 6th ed. New York, NY: Pergamon Press, 1980. textbook:———. Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 7th ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1999. textbook:Jenkins, F. A., and H. E. White. Fundamentals of Optics. 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1976. level:Undergraduate instructors:Cardinal Warde,  David Dunmeyer<br/>(Contributor) term:Fall 2005 features:Projects (no examples) description:6.161 offers an introduction to laboratory optics, optical principles, and optical devices and systems. This course covers a wide range of topics, including: polarization properties of light, reflection and refraction, coherence and interference, Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction, holography, imaging and transforming properties of lenses, spatial filtering, two-lens coherent optical processor, optical properties of materials, lasers, electro-optic, acousto-optic and liquid-crystal light modulators, optical detectors, optical waveguides and fiber-optic communication systems. Students engage in extensive oral and written communication exercises. There are 12 engineering design points associated with this subject.
6.701 | Introduction to Nanoelectronics (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-701-introduction-to-nanoelectronics-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Marc  Baldo term:Spring 2010 features:Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Traditionally, progress in electronics has been driven by miniaturization. But as electronic devices approach the molecular scale, classical models for device behavior must be abandoned. To prepare for the next generation of electronic devices, this class teaches the theory of current, voltage and resistance from atoms up. To describe electrons at the nanoscale, we will begin with an introduction to the principles of quantum mechanics, including quantization, the wave-particle duality, wavefunctions and Schrödinger's equation. Then we will consider the electronic properties of molecules, carbon nanotubes and crystals, including energy band formation and the origin of metals, insulators and semiconductors. Electron conduction will be taught beginning with ballistic transport and concluding with a derivation of Ohm's law. We will then compare ballistic to bulk MOSFETs. The class will conclude with a discussion of possible fundamental limits to computation.
6.801 | Machine Vision (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-801-machine-vision-fall-2004 | textbook:Horn, Berthold K. P. Robot Vision. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press/McGraw-Hill, March 1986. level:Undergraduate instructors:Berthold Horn term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Exams and solutions description:Machine Vision provides an intensive introduction to the process of generating a symbolic description of an environment from an image. Lectures describe the physics of image formation, motion vision, and recovering shapes from shading. Binary image processing and filtering are presented as preprocessing steps. Further topics include photogrammetry, object representation alignment, analog VLSI and computational vision. Applications to robotics and intelligent machine interaction are discussed.
6.802J | Foundations of Computational and Systems Biology (Spring 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-91j-foundations-of-computational-and-systems-biology-spring-2014 | textbook:This textbook is recommended for the course:  Zvelebil, Marketa J., and Jeremy O. Baum. Understanding Bioinformatics. Garland Science, 2007. textbook:Broman, Karl W., and Saunak Sen. "Single–QTL Analysis." Chapter 4 in A Guide to QTL Mapping with R/qtl. Springer, 2009. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Gifford,  Ernest Fraenkel term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to computational biology emphasizing the fundamentals of nucleic acid and protein sequence and structural analysis; it also includes an introduction to the analysis of complex biological systems. Topics covered in the course include principles and methods used for sequence alignment, motif finding, structural modeling, structure prediction and network modeling, as well as currently emerging research areas.
6.803 | The Human Intelligence Enterprise (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-803-the-human-intelligence-enterprise-spring-2006 | textbook:Larson, Stephen D. "Intrinsic Representation: Bootstrapping Symbols From Experience." In Lecture Notes in Computer Science 3060. New York, NY: Springer, 2004, pp. 202-216. level:Undergraduate instructors:Patrick Henry Winston term:Spring 2006 features:Projects (no examples) description:6.803/6.833 is a course in the department's &quot;Artifical Intelligence and Applications&quot; concentration. This course is offered both to undergraduates (6.803) and graduates (6.833). 6.803/6.833 is designed to help students learn about progress toward the scientific goal of understanding human intelligence from a computational point of view. This course complements 6.034, because 6.803/6.833 focuses on long-standing scientific questions, whereas 6.034 focuses on existing tools for building applications with reasoning and learning capability. The content of 6.803/6.833 is largely based on papers by representative Artificial Intelligence leaders, which serve as the basis for discussion and assignments for the course.
6.803 | The Human Intelligence Enterprise (Spring 2002) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-803-the-human-intelligence-enterprise-spring-2002 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Patrick Henry Winston term:Spring 2002 features:Projects (no examples) description:This course is offered both to undergraduates (6.803) and graduates (6.833) and is designed to help students learn about progress toward the scientific goal of understanding human intelligence from a computational point of view. This course complements 6.034, because it focuses on long-standing scientific questions, whereas 6.034 focuses on existing tools for building applications with reasoning and learning capability.The content of 6.803/6.833 is largely based on papers by representative Artificial Intelligence leaders, which serve as the basis for discussion and assignments for the course.
6.804J | Computational Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-66j-computational-cognitive-science-fall-2004 | textbook:AIMA is short for the recommended course text:  Russell, Stuart, J., and Peter Norvig. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall/Pearson Education, 2003. textbook:Goodman, Nelson. "The New Riddle of Induction." In Fact, Fiction, and Forecast. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1983. textbook:Fodor, Chomsky. "On the Impossibility of Acquiring more Powerful Structures," and "The Inductivist Fallacy (including discussion)." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984, pp. 142-149. textbook:———. "The Inductivist Fallacy." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1984, pp. 259-269, including discussion. textbook:Bruner, Jerome S., Jacqueline J. Goodnow, and George Austin. A Study in Thinking. Somerset, NJ: Transaction Publishers, 1986. textbook:Mitchell, Thomas M. Machine Learning. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997, chapter 2. textbook:Kearns, Michael J., and Umesh V. Vasirani. An Introduction to Computational Learning Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1994, pp. 1-7. textbook:Winston, P. H., ed. "Learning Structural Descriptions from Examples." In The Psychology of Computer Vision. New York, NY: McGaw-Hill, 1975, pp. 157-209. textbook:Chomsky, Noam. Syntactic Structures. Berlin, Germany: Walter De Gruyter, Inc., 1976, pp. 11-48. textbook:Markman, Arthur. Knowledge Representation. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1998, pp. 118-146, and 188-216. textbook:1.  Pinker, S. "Why the Child Holded the Baby Rabbits: A Case Study in Language Acquisition." In An Invitation to Cognitive Science: Language. Edited by L. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. 2nd ed. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:2.  Rumelhart, D. E., and J. L. McClelland, eds. "On Learning the Past Tenses of English Verbs." Chapter 18 in Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Rumelhart, D. E., and J. L. McClelland, eds. "Schemata and Sequential Thought Processes in PDP Models." Chapter 14 in Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Sivia. Bayesian Data Analysis. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996, pp. 1-23. textbook:McClelland, J. L., D. E. Rumelhart, andG. Hinton. "The Appeal of Parallel Distributed Processing." In Parallel Distributed Processing: Explorations in the Microstructure of Cognition. Vol. 2. Edited by D. E. Rumelhart, and J. L. McClelland. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1987. textbook:Gelman, Carlin, Stern, and Rubin. "Hierarchical Models." Chapter 5 in Bayesian Data Analysis. 2nd ed. London, UK: Chapman & Hall, 1995, pp. 117-131. textbook:Review:  Goodman, Nelson. "The New Riddle of Induction." In Fact, Fiction, and Forecast. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1983. textbook:Mitchell, Thomas M. "Bayesian Learning." Chapter 6 in Machine Learning. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997, sections 6.1-6.3. textbook:Tenenbaum, J. B. "Rules and Similarity in Concept Learning." In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 12. Edited by S. Solla, T. Leen, and K. Muller. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, 59-65. textbook:If necessary for background:  Bishop, C. M. "Bayesian Classification." Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Murphy, Gregory L., and Douglas L. Medin. "The Role of Theories in Conceptual Coherence." Chapter 19 in Concepts: Core Readings. Edited by E. Margolis, and S. Laurence. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, July 1999, pp. 425-458. textbook:Gelman, Susan A. The Essential Child. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, March 1, 2003, chapter 1, and 3, pp. 3-18, and 60-88. textbook:Pearl, Judea. Causality: Models, Reasoning, and Inference. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 2000, chapter 1. textbook:Gregory F. Cooper. "An Overview of the Representation and Discovery of Causal Relationships using Bayesian Networks." In Computation, Causation, and Discovery. Edited by Clark Glymour and Gregory F. Cooper. MIT Press, June 1999, pp. 3-62. textbook:Atran, Scott. "Classifying Nature Across Cultures." In Thinking: An Invitation to Cognitive Science. Edited by Edward E. Smith, Daniel N. Osherson, et. al. 2nd ed. Vol. 3. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 131-174. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Joshua Tenenbaum term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course is an introduction to computational theories of human cognition. Drawing on formal models from classic and contemporary artificial intelligence, students will explore fundamental issues in human knowledge representation, inductive learning and reasoning. What are the forms that our knowledge of the world takes? What are the inductive principles that allow us to acquire new knowledge from the interaction of prior knowledge with observed data? What kinds of data must be available to human learners, and what kinds of innate knowledge (if any) must they have?
6.805 | Ethics and the Law on the Electronic Frontier (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-805-ethics-and-the-law-on-the-electronic-frontier-fall-2005 | textbook:Brin, David. The Transparent Society: Will Technology Force Us to Choose Between Privacy and Freedom? New York, NY: Perseus Books, 1999. textbook:O'Harrow, Robert. No Place to Hide: Behind the Scenes of Our Emerging Surveillance Society. New York, NY: Simon and Schuster, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Weitzner,  Harold Abelson,  Michael M.J. Fischer term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:This course considers the interaction between law, policy, and technology as they relate to the evolving controversies over control of the Internet. In addition, there will be an in-depth treatment of privacy and the notion of "transparency" -- regulations and technologies that govern the use of information, as well as access to information. Topics explored will include: Legal Background for Regulation of the InternetFourth Amendment Law and Electronic SurveillanceProfiling, Data Mining, and the U.S. PATRIOT ActTechnologies for Anonymity and TransparencyThe Policy-Aware Web
6.806 | Ethics and the Law on the Electronic Frontier (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-805-ethics-and-the-law-on-the-electronic-frontier-fall-2005 | textbook:Brin, David. The Transparent Society: Will Technology Force Us to Choose Between Privacy and Freedom? New York, NY: Perseus Books, 1999. textbook:O'Harrow, Robert. No Place to Hide: Behind the Scenes of Our Emerging Surveillance Society. New York, NY: Simon and Schuster, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Weitzner,  Harold Abelson,  Michael M.J. Fischer term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:This course considers the interaction between law, policy, and technology as they relate to the evolving controversies over control of the Internet. In addition, there will be an in-depth treatment of privacy and the notion of "transparency" -- regulations and technologies that govern the use of information, as well as access to information. Topics explored will include: Legal Background for Regulation of the InternetFourth Amendment Law and Electronic SurveillanceProfiling, Data Mining, and the U.S. PATRIOT ActTechnologies for Anonymity and TransparencyThe Policy-Aware Web
6.811 | Principles and Practice of Assistive Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-811-principles-and-practice-of-assistive-technology-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:William Li,  Grace Teo,  Robert Miller term:Fall 2014 features:Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Demonstration - video, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:6.811: Principles and Practice of Assistive Technology (PPAT) is an interdisciplinary, project-based course, centered around a design project in which small teams of students work closely with a person with a disability in the Cambridge area to design a device, piece of equipment, app, or other solution that helps them live more independently.
6.813 | User Interface Design and Implementation (Spring 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-831-user-interface-design-and-implementation-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Robert Miller term:Spring 2011 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:6.831/6.813 examines human-computer interaction in the context of graphical user interfaces. The course covers human capabilities, design principles, prototyping techniques, evaluation techniques, and the implementation of graphical user interfaces. Deliverables include short programming assignments and a semester-long group project. Students taking the graduate version also have readings from current literature and additional assignments.
6.814 | Database Systems (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-830-database-systems-fall-2010 | textbook:Hellerstein, Joseph, and Michael Stonebraker. Readings in Database Systems (The Red Book). 4th ed. MIT Press, 2005. textbook:Ramakrishnan, Raghu, and Johannes Gehrke. Database Management Systems. 3rd ed. McGraw-Hill, 2002. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Samuel Madden,  Robert Morris,  Michael Stonebraker, Dr. Carlo Curino term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course relies on primary readings from the database community to introduce graduate students to the foundations of database systems, focusing on basics such as the relational algebra and data model, schema normalization, query optimization, and transactions. It is designed for students who have taken 6.033 (or equivalent); no prior database experience is assumed, though students who have taken an undergraduate course in databases are encouraged to attend.
6.820 | Fundamentals of Program Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-820-fundamentals-of-program-analysis-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Armando Solar-Lezama term:Fall 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course offers a comprehensive introduction to the field of program analysis. It covers some of the major forms of program analysis including Type Checking, Abstract Interpretation and Model Checking. For each of these, the course covers the underlying theories as well as modern techniques and applications.
6.837 | Computer Graphics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-837-computer-graphics-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Wojciech Matusik,  Frédo Durand term:Fall 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides introduction to computer graphics algorithms, software and hardware. Topics include: ray tracing, the graphics pipeline, transformations, texture mapping, shadows, sampling, global illumination, splines, animation and color. This course offers 6 Engineering Design Points in MIT's EECS program.
6.901 | Inventions and Patents | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-901-inventions-and-patents-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Robert Rines term:Fall 2005 features:Faculty introduction - video, Online textbooks description:This course explores the history of private and public rights in scientific discoveries and applied engineering, leading to the development of worldwide patent systems. The classes of invention protectable under the patent laws of the U.S., including the procedures in protecting inventions in the Patent Office and the courts will be examined. A review of past cases involving inventions and patents in: the chemical process industry and medical pharmaceutical, biological, and genetic-engineering fields;devices in the mechanical, ocean exploration, civil, and/or aeronautical fields;the electrical, computer, software, and electronic areas, including key radio, solid-state, computer and software inventions; and alsosoftware protection afforded under copyright laws.Periodic joint real-time class sessions and discussions by video-audio Internet conferencing, with other universities will also be conducted.
6.902J | Engineering Innovation and Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-051j-engineering-innovation-and-design-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Blade Kotelly,  Joel  E  Schindall term:Fall 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:Learn to produce great designs, be a more effective engineer, and communicate with high emotional and intellectual impact. This project based course gives students the ability to understand, contextualize, and analyze engineering designs and systems. By learning and applying design thinking, students will more effectively solve problems in any domain. Lectures focus on teaching a tested, iterative design process as well as techniques to sharpen creative analysis. Guest lectures from all disciplines illustrate different approaches to design thinking. This course develops students' skills to conceive, organize, lead, implement, and evaluate successful projects in any engineering discipline. Additionally, students learn how to give compelling in-person presentations. Open to all majors, all years.
6.903J | Patents, Copyrights, and the Law of Intellectual Property | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-628j-patents-copyrights-and-the-law-of-intellectual-property-spring-2013 | textbook:Bagley, and Dauchy. Chapter 14 in The Entrepreneur's Guide to Business Law. Cengage Learning, 2011, pp. 529–42. textbook:Bagley, and Dauchy. Chapter 14 in The Entrepreneur's Guide to Business Law. Cengage Learning, 2011, pp. 518–29. textbook:Bagley, and Dauchy. Chapter 14 in The Entrepreneur's Guide to Business Law. Cengage Learning, 2011, pp. 558–69. level:Undergraduate instructors: term:Spring 2013 features: description:This course is an intensive introduction to the U.S. law of intellectual property with major emphasis on patents, including what can be patented, the process of patent application, and the remedies for patent infringement.
6.911 | Transcribing Prosodic Structure of Spoken Utterances with ToBI | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-911-transcribing-prosodic-structure-of-spoken-utterances-with-tobi-january-iap-2006 | textbook:Pierrehumbert, J., and J. Hirschberg: "The meaning of intonational contours in the interpretation of discourse." In  Intentions in Communication. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1990. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Nanette Veilleux,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel,  Alejna Brugos term:January IAP 2006 features:Online textbooks, Lecture notes description:This course presents a tutorial on the ToBI (Tones and Break Indices) system, for labelling certain aspects of prosody in Mainstream American English (MAE-ToBI). The course is appropriate for undergrad or grad students with background in linguistics (phonology or phonetics), cognitive psychology (psycholinguistics), speech acoustics or music, who wish to learn about the prosody of speech, i.e. the intonation, rhythm, grouping and prominence patterns of spoken utterances, prosodic differences that signal meaning and phonetic implementation.Please submit any feedback about the course content using the user survey.
6.912 | Introduction to Copyright Law | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-912-introduction-to-copyright-law-january-iap-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Keith Winstein term:January IAP 2006 features:Video lectures description:This course is an introduction to copyright law and American law in general. Topics covered include: structure of federal law; basics of legal research; legal citations; how to use LexisNexis&reg;; the 1976 Copyright Act; copyright as applied to music, computers, broadcasting, and education; fair use; Napster&reg;, Grokster&reg;, and Peer-to-Peer file-sharing; Library Access to Music Project; The 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act; DVDs and encryption; software licensing; the GNU&reg; General Public License and free software.
6.930 | Management in Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-96-management-in-engineering-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jung-Hoon Chun,  Henry S. Marcus, Dr. Abbott Weiss term:Fall 2012 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course gives an overview of engineering management and covers topics such as financial principles, management of innovation, technology strategy, and best management practices. The focus of the course is the development of individual skills and team work. This is carried out through an exposure to management tools.
6.976 | NextLab I: Designing Mobile Technologies for the Next Billion Users | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-965-nextlab-i-designing-mobile-technologies-for-the-next-billion-users-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Mr. Jhonatan Rotberg, Dr. Luis Sarmenta, Dr. Gari Clifford, Dr. Rich Fletcher term:Fall 2008 features: description:Can you make a cellphone change the world? NextLab is a hands-on year-long design course in which students research, develop and deploy mobile technologies for the next billion mobile users in developing countries. Guided by real-world needs as observed by local partners, students work in multidisciplinary teams on term-long projects, closely collaborating with NGOs and communities at the local level, field practitioners, and experts in relevant fields. Students are expected to leverage technical ingenuity in both mobile and internet technologies together with social insight in order to address social challenges in areas such as health, microfinance, entrepreneurship, education, and civic activism. Students with technically and socially viable prototypes may obtain funding for travel to their target communities, in order to obtain the first-hand feedback necessary to prepare their technologies for full fledged deployment into the real world (subject to guidelines and limitations).
6.S079 | Nanomaker | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-s079-nanomaker-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Katey Lo, Dr. Joseph Summers,  Vladimir Bulovic,  Rajeev Ram term:Spring 2013 features:Demonstration - video, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course links clean energy sources and storage technology to energy consumption case studies to give students a concept of the full circle of production and consumption. Specifically, photovoltaic, organic photovoltaic, piezoelectricity and thermoelectricity sources are applied to electrophoresis, lab on a chip, and paper microfluidic applications&ndash;relevant analytical techniques in biology and chemistry. Hands-on experimentation with everyday materials and equipment help connect the theory with the implementation. Complementary laboratories fabricating LEDs, organic LEDs and spectrometers introduce the diagnostic tools used to characterize energy efficiency.This course is one of many OCW Energy Courses, and it is an elective subject in MIT&rsquo;s undergraduate Energy  Studies Minor.  This Institute-wide program complements the deep  expertise obtained in any major with a broad understanding of the  interlinked realms of science, technology, and social sciences as they  relate to energy and associated environmental challenges.
6.S096 | Effective Programming in C and C++ | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-s096-effective-programming-in-c-and-c-january-iap-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Andre Kessler term:January IAP 2014 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course is a fast-paced introduction to the C and C++ programming languages, with an emphasis on good programming practices and how to be an effective programmer in these languages. Topics include object-oriented programming, memory management, advantages of C and C++, optimization, and others. Students are given weekly coding assignments and a final project to hone their skills. Recommended for programmers with some background and experience in other languages.This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP),  which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of  January until the end of the month.
6.S096 | Introduction to C and C++ | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-s096-introduction-to-c-and-c-january-iap-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Tom Lieber,  Kyle Murray,  Frank Li term:January IAP 2013 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides a fast-paced introduction to the C and C++ programming languages. You will learn the required background knowledge, including memory management, pointers, preprocessor macros, object-oriented programming, and how to find bugs when you inevitably use any of those incorrectly. There will be daily assignments and a small-scale individual project. This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
6.231 | Dynamic Programming and Stochastic Control | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-231-dynamic-programming-and-stochastic-control-fall-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Dimitri Bertsekas term:Fall 2015 features:Special feature - video, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:The course covers the basic models and solution techniques for problems of sequential decision making under uncertainty (stochastic control). We will consider optimal control of a dynamical system over both a finite and an infinite number of stages. This includes systems with finite or infinite state spaces, as well as perfectly or imperfectly observed systems. We will also discuss approximation methods for problems involving large state spaces. Applications of dynamic programming in a variety of fields will be covered in recitations.
6.241J | Dynamic Systems and Control | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-241j-dynamic-systems-and-control-spring-2011 | level:Graduate instructors:Emilio Frazzoli,  Munther Dahleh term:Spring 2011 features:Online textbooks, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:The course addresses dynamic systems, i.e., systems that evolve with time. Typically these systems have inputs and outputs; it is of interest to understand how the input affects the output (or, vice-versa, what inputs should be given to generate a desired output). In particular, we will concentrate on systems that can be modeled by Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs), and that satisfy certain linearity and time-invariance conditions. We will analyze the response of these systems to inputs and initial conditions. It is of particular interest to analyze systems obtained as interconnections (e.g., feedback) of two or more other systems. We will learn how to design (control) systems that ensure desirable properties (e.g., stability, performance) of the interconnection with a given dynamic system.
6.243J | Dynamics of Nonlinear Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-243j-dynamics-of-nonlinear-systems-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Alexandre Megretski term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course provides an&nbsp;introduction to nonlinear deterministic dynamical systems. Topics covered include: nonlinear ordinary differential equations; planar autonomous systems; fundamental theory: Picard iteration, contraction mapping theorem, and Bellman-Gronwall lemma; stability of equilibria by Lyapunov's first and second methods; feedback linearization; and application to nonlinear circuits and control systems.
6.245 | Multivariable Control Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-245-multivariable-control-systems-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Alexandre Megretski term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course uses computer-aided design methodologies for synthesis of multivariable feedback control systems. Topics covered include: performance and robustness trade-offs; model-based compensators; Q-parameterization; ill-posed optimization problems; dynamic augmentation; linear-quadratic optimization of controllers; H-infinity controller design; Mu-synthesis; model and compensator simplification; and nonlinear effects. The assignments for the course comprise of computer-aided (MATLAB&reg;) design problems.
6.251J | Introduction to Mathematical Programming | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-251j-introduction-to-mathematical-programming-fall-2009 | textbook:Chapter assignments are from the required textbook:  Bertsimas, Dimitris, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Linear Optimization. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Dimitris Bertsimas term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to linear optimization and its extensions emphasizing the underlying mathematical structures, geometrical ideas, algorithms and solutions of practical problems. The topics covered include: formulations, the geometry of linear optimization, duality theory, the simplex method, sensitivity analysis, robust optimization, large scale optimization network flows, solving problems with an exponential number of constraints and the ellipsoid method, interior point methods, semidefinite optimization, solving real world problems problems with computer software, discrete optimization formulations and algorithms.
6.252J | Nonlinear Programming (Spring 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-084j-nonlinear-programming-spring-2004 | textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri P. Nonlinear Programming. 2nd ed. Athena Scientific Press, 1999. textbook:Bazaraa, Mokhtar S., Hanif D. Sherali, and C. M. Shetty. Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1993. textbook:Luenberger, David G. Linear and Nonlinear Programming. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 1984. textbook:Or:  Bertsimas, Dimitris, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Linear Optimization. Athena Scientific Press, 1997. textbook:For those students who have not had any exposure to real analysis, you should read the following sections of the text: Rudin, Walter. Principles of Mathematical Analysis. 3rd ed. McGraw-Hill, 1976. level:Graduate instructors:Robert Freund term:Spring 2004 features:Selected video lectures, Lecture notes description:This course introduces students to the fundamentals of nonlinear optimization theory and methods. Topics include unconstrained and constrained optimization, linear and quadratic programming, Lagrange and conic duality theory, interior-point algorithms and theory, Lagrangian relaxation, generalized programming, and semi-definite programming. Algorithmic methods used in the class include steepest descent, Newton's method, conditional gradient and subgradient optimization, interior-point methods and penalty and barrier methods.
6.252J | Nonlinear Programming (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-252j-nonlinear-programming-spring-2003 | textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri. Nonlinear Programming: 2nd Edition. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific Press, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Dimitri Bertsekas term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:6.252J is a course in the department's "Communication, Control, and Signal Processing" concentration. This course provides a unified analytical and computational approach to nonlinear optimization problems. The topics covered in this course include: unconstrained optimization methods, constrained optimization methods, convex analysis, Lagrangian relaxation, nondifferentiable optimization, and applications in integer programming. There is also a comprehensive treatment of optimality conditions, Lagrange multiplier theory, and duality theory. Throughout the course, applications are drawn from control, communications, power systems, and resource allocation problems.
6.253 | Convex Analysis and Optimization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-253-convex-analysis-and-optimization-spring-2012 | level:Graduate instructors:Dimitri Bertsekas term:Spring 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course will focus on fundamental subjects in convexity, duality, and convex optimization algorithms. The aim is to develop the core analytical and algorithmic issues of continuous optimization, duality, and saddle point theory using a handful of unifying principles that can be easily visualized and readily understood.
6.254 | Game Theory with Engineering Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-254-game-theory-with-engineering-applications-spring-2010 | textbook:Fudenberg, Drew, and Jean Tirole. Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1991. textbook:Nisan, Noam, Tim Roughgarden, Eva Tardos, and Vijay V. Vazirani. Algorithmic Game Theory. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2007. textbook:Fudenberg, Drew, and David Levine. The Theory of Learning in Games. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998. textbook:Mas-Colell, Andreu, Michael D. Whinston, and Jerry R. Green. Microeconomic Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Osborne, Martin J., and Ariel Rubinstein. A Course in Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1994. textbook:Myerson, Roger B. Game Theory. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1997. textbook:Krishna, Vijay. Auction Theory. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2009. textbook:Basar, Tamer, and Geert Jan Olsder. Dynamic Noncooperative Game Theory. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1999. textbook:Young, H. Peyton. Strategic Learning and Its Limits. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2005. textbook:Young, H. Peyton. Individual Strategy and Social Structure: An Evolutionary Theory of Institutions. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2001. textbook:Osborne, Martin J. An Introduction to Game Theory. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:Gibbons, Robert. Game Theory for Applied Economists. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1992. level:Graduate instructors:Asu Ozdaglar term:Spring 2010 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of game theory and mechanism design. Motivations are drawn from engineered/networked systems (including distributed control of wireline and wireless communication networks, incentive-compatible/dynamic resource allocation, multi-agent systems, pricing and investment decisions in the Internet), and social models (including social and economic networks). The course emphasizes theoretical foundations, mathematical tools, modeling, and equilibrium notions in different environments.
6.255J | Optimization Methods | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-093j-optimization-methods-fall-2009 | textbook:Assigned chapters are from the required textbook:  Bertsimas, Dimitris, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Linear Optimization. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Dimitris Bertsimas term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course introduces the principal algorithms for linear, network, discrete, nonlinear, dynamic optimization and optimal control. Emphasis is on methodology and the underlying mathematical structures. Topics include the simplex method, network flow methods, branch and bound and cutting plane methods for discrete optimization, optimality conditions for nonlinear optimization, interior point methods for convex optimization, Newton's method, heuristic methods, and dynamic programming and optimal control methods.
6.262 | Discrete Stochastic Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-262-discrete-stochastic-processes-spring-2011 | level:Graduate instructors:Robert Gallager term:Spring 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Discrete stochastic processes are essentially probabilistic systems that evolve in time via random changes occurring at discrete fixed or random intervals. This course aims to help students acquire both the mathematical principles and the intuition necessary to create, analyze, and understand insightful models for a broad range of these processes.  The range of areas for which discrete stochastic-process models are useful is constantly expanding, and includes many applications in engineering, physics, biology, operations research and finance.
6.263J | Data Communication Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-263j-data-communication-networks-fall-2002 | textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri, and Robert Gallager. Data Networks (2nd Edition). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1991. textbook:Peterson and Davie. Computer Networks (2nd Edition). San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 1999. textbook:Walrand and Varaiya. High Performance Communication Networks. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 1996. textbook:Tanenbaum, A. S. Computer Networks. 4th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ : Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Stevens. TCP/IP Illustrated. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., c1994-c1996. textbook:Kleinrock, Leonard. Queueing Systems, Vol 1: Theory. New York, NY: Wiley J., 1975. level:Graduate instructors:Dimitri Bertsekas<br/>(Contributor),  Eytan Modiano term:Fall 2002 features:Lecture notes description:6.263J / 16.37J focuses on the fundamentals of data communication networks. One goal is to give some insight into the rationale of why networks are structured the way they are today and to understand the issues facing the designers of next-generation data networks. Much of the course focuses on network algorithms and their performance. Students are expected to have a strong mathematical background and an understanding of probability theory. Topics discussed include: layered network architecture, Link Layer protocols, high-speed packet switching, queueing theory, Local Area Networks, and Wide Area Networking issues, including routing and flow control.
6.264J | Queues: Theory and Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-072j-queues-theory-and-applications-spring-2006 | textbook:Kleinrock, Leonard. Queueing Systems. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1975-1976. textbook:Kelly, Frank P. Reversibility and Stochastic Networks. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1979. textbook:Chen, Hong, and David Yao. Fundamentals of Queueing Networks: Performance, Asymptotics, and Optimization. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:David Gamarnik,  Premal Shah term:Spring 2006 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This class deals with the modeling and analysis of queueing systems, with applications in communications, manufacturing, computers, call centers, service industries and transportation. Topics include birth-death processes and simple Markovian queues, networks of queues and product form networks, single and multi-server queues, multi-class queueing networks, fluid models, adversarial queueing networks, heavy-traffic theory and diffusion approximations. The course will cover state of the art results which lead to research opportunities.
6.265J | Advanced Stochastic Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-070j-advanced-stochastic-processes-fall-2013 | textbook:Grimmett, Geoffrey R., and David R. Stirzaker. Section 7.8 in Probability and Random Processes. 3rd ed. Oxford University Press,  2001. level:Graduate instructors:David Gamarnik term:Fall 2013 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This class covers the analysis and modeling of stochastic processes. Topics include measure theoretic probability, martingales, filtration, and stopping theorems, elements of large deviations theory, Brownian motion and reflected Brownian motion, stochastic integration and Ito calculus and functional limit theorems. In addition, the class will go over some applications to finance theory, insurance, queueing and inventory models.
6.281J | Logistical and Transportation Planning Methods | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/civil-and-environmental-engineering/1-203j-logistical-and-transportation-planning-methods-fall-2006 | textbook:Larson, Richard C., and Amedeo R. Odoni. Urban Operations Research. Belmont, MA: Dynamic Ideas, 2007. level:Graduate instructors:Richard C. Larson,  Amedeo R. Odoni,  Arnold Barnett term:Fall 2006 features:Online textbooks, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Images on Flickr description:The class will cover quantitative techniques of Operations Research with emphasis on applications in transportation systems analysis (urban, air, ocean, highway, pick-up and delivery systems) and in the planning and design of logistically oriented urban service systems (e.g., fire and police departments, emergency medical services, emergency repair services). It presents a unified study of functions of random variables, geometrical probability, multi-server queueing theory, spatial location theory, network analysis and graph theory, and relevant methods of simulation. There will be discussion focused on the difficulty of implementation, among other topics.
6.301 | Solid-State Circuits | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-301-solid-state-circuits-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:James Roberge term:Fall 2010 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.301 is a course in analog circuit analysis and design. We cover the tools and methods necessary for the creative design of useful circuits using active devices. The class stresses insight and intuition, applied to the design of transistor circuits and the estimation of their performance. We concentrate on circuits using the bipolar junction transistor, but the techniques that we study can be equally applied to circuits using JFETs, MOSFETs, MESFETs, future exotic devices, or even vacuum tubes.
6.302 | Feedback Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-302-feedback-systems-spring-2007 | level:Graduate instructors:James Roberge,  Joel Dawson<br/>(Contributor), Dr. Kent Lundberg<br/>(Contributor) term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to the design of feedback systems. Topics covered include: properties and advantages of feedback systems, time-domain and frequency-domain performance measures, stability and degree of stability, root locus method, Nyquist criterion, frequency-domain design, compensation techniques, application to a wide variety of physical systems, internal and external compensation of operational amplifiers, modeling and compensation of power converter systems, and phase lock loops.
6.331 | Advanced Circuit Techniques | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-331-advanced-circuit-techniques-spring-2002 | textbook:Roberge, J. K. Operational Amplifiers: Theory and Practice. New York, NY: Wiley, 1975. textbook:Grebene, A. B. Bipolar and MOS Analog Integrated Circuit Design. New York, NY: Wiley, 1984. textbook:Pease, R. A. Troubleshooting Analog Circuits. Boston, MA: Butterworth-Heinemann, 1991. textbook:Williams, J., ed. Analog Circuit Design: Art, Science, and Personalities. Boston, MA: Butterworth-Heinemann, 1991. textbook:Williams, J., ed. The Art and Science of Analog Circuit Design. Boston, MA: Butterworth-Heinemann, 1995. textbook:Lee, T. H. The Design of CMOS Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuits. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Gray, P. R., Hurst, P. J., Lewis, S. H., and Meyer, R. G. Analysis and Design of Analog Integrated Circuits. 4th ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 2001. textbook:Gray, P. E., and C. L. Searle. Electronic Principles: Physics, Models, and Circuits. New York, NY: Wiley, 1969. level:Graduate instructors:James Roberge, Dr. Kent Lundberg<br/>(Contributor) term:Spring 2002 features: description:Following a brief classroom discussion of relevant principles, each student in this course completes the paper design of several advanced circuits such as multiplexers, sample-and-holds, gain-controlled amplifiers, analog multipliers, digital-to-analog or analog-to-digital converters, and power amplifiers. One of each student's designs is presented to the class, and one may be built and evaluated. Associated laboratory assignments emphasize the use of modern analog building blocks. This course is worth 12 Engineering Design Points.
6.334 | Power Electronics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-334-power-electronics-spring-2007 | textbook:Kassakian, John G., Martin F. Schlecht, and George C. Verghese. Principles of Power Electronics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1991. textbook:Krein, Philip T. Elements of Power Electronics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Mohan, Ned, Tore Undeland, and William Robbins. Power Electronics: Converters, Applications, and Design. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1995. textbook:Erickson, Robert W. Fundamentals of Power Electronics. New York, NY: Chapman & Hall, 1997. textbook:Rashid, Muhammad H. SPICE for Power Electronics and Electric Power. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:David Perreault term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:6.334 examines the application of electronics to energy conversion and control. Topics covered include: modeling, analysis, and control techniques; design of power circuits including inverters, rectifiers, and DC-DC converters; analysis and design of magnetic components and filters; and characteristics of power semiconductor devices. Numerous application examples will be presented such as motion control systems, power supplies, and radio-frequency power amplifiers. The course is worth 6 engineering design points.
6.336J | Introduction to Numerical Simulation (SMA 5211) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-336j-introduction-to-numerical-simulation-sma-5211-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Jacob White,  Jaime Peraire,  Luca Daniel,  Nicholas Hadjiconstantinou,  Anthony T. Patera term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:6.336J is an introduction to computational techniques for the simulation of a large variety of engineering and physical systems. Applications are drawn from aerospace, mechanical, electrical, chemical and biological engineering, and materials science. Topics include: mathematical formulations; network problems; sparse direct and iterative matrix solution techniques; Newton methods for nonlinear problems; discretization methods for ordinary, time-periodic and partial differential equations, fast methods for partial differential and integral equations, techniques for dynamical system model reduction and approaches for molecular dynamics.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5211 (Introduction to Numerical Simulation).
6.337J | Introduction to Numerical Methods | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-335j-introduction-to-numerical-methods-fall-2010 | textbook:[NLA]=  Trefethen, Lloyd N., and David Bau III. Numerical Linear Algebra. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1997. textbook:[Linear] =  Barrett, et al. Templates for the Solution of Linear Systems: Building Blocks for Iterative Methods. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1993. textbook:[Algebraic]=   Bai, et al. Templates for the Solution of Algebraic Eigenvalue Problems: A Practical Guide. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2000. textbook:Further reading: If you need to review linear algebra, review chapters 1-3. If you don't have the linear algebra prerequisite review chapters 1-6 of Strang, Gilbert. Introduction to Linear Algebra, 4th Edition. Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2009. textbook:Conn, Andrew R., Katya Scheinberg, and Luis N. Vicente.  Introduction to Derivative-Free Optimization. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2009. level:Graduate instructors:Steven G. Johnson term:Fall 2010 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course offers an advanced introduction to numerical linear algebra. Topics include direct and iterative methods for linear systems, eigenvalue decompositions and QR/SVD factorizations, stability and accuracy of numerical algorithms, the IEEE floating point standard, sparse and structured matrices, preconditioning, linear algebra software. Problem sets require some knowledge of MATLAB&reg;.
6.339J | Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations (SMA 5212) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-920j-numerical-methods-for-partial-differential-equations-sma-5212-spring-2003 | textbook:Trefethen, L. N., and D. Bau, III. Numerical Linear Algebra. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1997. textbook:Strang, G., and G. J. Fix. Analysis of the Finite Element Method. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1973. textbook:Quarteroni, A., and A. Valli. Numerical Approximation of Partial Differential Equations. Berlin; New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1997. textbook:Atkinson, K. E. The Numerical Solution of Integral Equations of the Second Kind. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Briggs, W. L., et al. A Multigrid Tutorial. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 2000. textbook:Tveito, A., and R. Winther. Introduction to Partial Differential Equations: A Computational Approach. New York, NY: Springer, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Boo Cheong Khoo,  Jacob White,  Jaime Peraire,  Anthony T. Patera term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:A presentation of the fundamentals of modern numerical techniques for a wide range of linear and nonlinear elliptic, parabolic and hyperbolic partial differential equations and integral equations central to a wide variety of applications in science, engineering, and other fields. Topics include: Mathematical Formulations; Finite Difference and Finite Volume Discretizations; Finite Element Discretizations; Boundary Element Discretizations; Direct and Iterative Solution Methods.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5212 (Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations).
6.341 | Discrete-Time Signal Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-341-discrete-time-signal-processing-fall-2005 | textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., R. W. Schafer, and J. R. Buck. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1999. textbook:McClellan, J. H., et al. Computer-Based Exercises for Signal Processing Using MATLAB® 5. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Prentice Hall bundles both the text and the MATLAB® book under textbook:Parks, T. W., and C. S. Burrus. Digital Filter Design. New York, NY: Wiley, 1987. textbook:Crochiere, Ronald E., and Lawrence R. Rabiner. Multirate Digital Signal Processing. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1983. textbook:Hayes, Monson B. Statistical Digital Signal Processing and Modeling. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1996. textbook:Proakis, John G., and Dimitris G. Manolakis. Digital Signal Processing: Principles, Algorithms, and Applications. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Alan V. Oppenheim term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This class addresses the representation, analysis, and design of discrete time signals and systems. The major concepts covered include: Discrete-time processing of continuous-time signals; decimation, interpolation, and sampling rate conversion; flowgraph structures for DT systems; time-and frequency-domain design techniques for recursive (IIR) and non-recursive (FIR) filters; linear prediction; discrete Fourier transform, FFT algorithm; short-time Fourier analysis and filter banks; multirate techniques; Hilbert transforms; Cepstral analysis and various applications. Acknowledgements I would like to express my thanks to Thomas Baran, Myung Jin Choi, and Xiaomeng Shi for compiling the lecture notes on this site from my individual lectures and handouts and their class notes during the semesters that they were students in the course. These lecture notes, the text book and included problem sets and solutions will hopefully be helpful as you learn and explore the topic of Discrete-Time Signal Processing.
6.345 | Automatic Speech Recognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-345-automatic-speech-recognition-spring-2003 | textbook:Huang, Acero, and Hon. Spoken Language Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2001. textbook:Jelinek. Statistical Methods for Speech Recognition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998. textbook:Rabiner & Juang. Fundamentals of Speech Recognition. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1993. textbook:Duda, Hart, and Stork. Pattern Classification. New York, NY: Wiley & Sons, 2000. textbook:Stevens. Acoustic Phonetics. MIT Press, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. James Glass,  Victor Zue term:Spring 2003 features:Demonstration - audio, Lecture notes description:6.345 introduces students to the rapidly developing field of automatic speech recognition. Its content is divided into three parts. Part I deals with background material in the acoustic theory of speech production, acoustic-phonetics, and signal representation. Part II describes algorithmic aspects of speech recognition systems including pattern classification, search algorithms, stochastic modelling, and language modelling techniques. Part III compares and contrasts the various approaches to speech recognition, and describes advanced techniques used for acoustic-phonetic modelling, robust speech recognition, speaker adaptation, processing paralinguistic information, speech understanding, and multimodal processing.
6.374 | Analysis and Design of Digital Integrated Circuits | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-374-analysis-and-design-of-digital-integrated-circuits-fall-2003 | textbook:The reading assignments are from chapters in the course textbook:  Rabaey, Jan, Anantha Chandrakasan, and Bora Nikolic. Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Anantha Chandrakasan term:Fall 2003 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:6.374 examines the device and circuit level optimization of digital building blocks. Topics covered include: MOS device models including Deep Sub-Micron effects; circuit design styles for logic, arithmetic and sequential blocks; estimation and minimization of energy consumption; interconnect models and parasitics; device sizing and logical effort; timing issues (clock skew and jitter) and active clock distribution techniques; memory architectures, circuits (sense amplifiers) and devices; testing of integrated circuits. The course employs extensive use of circuit layout and SPICE in design projects and software labs.
6.431 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied Probability (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-fall-2010 | textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri, and John Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed. Athena Scientific, 2008. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:John Tsitsiklis term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Welcome to 6.041/6.431, a subject on the modeling and analysis of random phenomena and processes, including the basics of statistical inference. Nowadays, there is broad consensus that the ability to think probabilistically is a fundamental component of scientific literacy. For example:      The concept of statistical significance (to be touched upon at the end of this course) is considered by the Financial Times as one of &quot;The Ten Things Everyone Should Know About Science&quot;.     A recent Scientific American article argues that statistical literacy is crucial in making health-related decisions.     Finally, an article in the New York Times identifies statistical data analysis as an upcoming profession, valuable everywhere, from Google and Netflix to the Office of Management and Budget.  The aim of this class is to introduce the relevant models, skills, and tools, by combining mathematics with conceptual understanding and intuition.
6.431 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied  Probability (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-spring-2006 | textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri P., and John N. Tsitsiklis. Introduction to Probability. Belmont, MA: Athena Scientific Press, June 2002. textbook:Drake, A. Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988. textbook:Ross, S. A First Course in Probability. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Munther Dahleh term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is offered both to undergraduates (6.041) and graduates (6.431), but the assignments differ. 6.041/6.431 introduces students to the modeling, quantification, and analysis of uncertainty. Topics covered include: formulation and solution in sample space, random variables, transform techniques, simple random processes and their probability distributions, Markov processes, limit theorems, and elements of statistical inference.
6.432 | Stochastic Processes, Detection, and Estimation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-432-stochastic-processes-detection-and-estimation-spring-2004 | textbook:This course has no required or recommended text. However, the optional reference text (A. Papoulis, Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes, McGraw-Hill, third ed., 1991, textbook:Anderson, B. D. O., and J. B. Moore. Optimal Filtering. Prentice-Hall, 1979. textbook:Drake, A.Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory. McGraw-Hill, 1967. textbook:Feller, W. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications. Vols. 1 and 2. Wiley, 1968. textbook:Gardner, W. A. Introduction to Random Processes: with Applications to Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. McGraw-Hill, 1990. textbook:Gray, R. M., and L. D. Davisson. Random Processes: A Mathematical Approach for Engineers. Prentice-Hall, 1986. textbook:Helstrom, C. W. Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineers. Macmillan, 1991. textbook:Kay, S. M. Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing and Estimation Theory. Prentice-Hall, 1993. textbook:Lee, E., and D. G. Messerschmitt. Digital Communication. 2nd ed. Kluwer Academic, 1994. textbook:Loève, M. Probability Theory. Vol. 1. 4th ed. Springer-Verlag, 1977. textbook:Naylor, A. W., and G. R. Sell. Linear Operator Theory in Engineering and Science. Springer-Verlag, 1982. textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and R. W. Schafer. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and A. S. Willsky. Signals and Systems. Prentice-Hall, 1982. textbook:Parzen, E. Stochastic Processes. Holden-Day, 1962. textbook:Scharf, L. L. Statistical Signal Processing: Detection, Estimation, and Time Series Analysis. Addison-Wesley, 1991. textbook:Stark, H., and J. W. Woods. Probability, Random Processes, and Estimation Theory for Engineers. 2nd ed. Prentice-Hall, 1994. textbook:Strang, G.Linear Algebra and its Applications. 3rd ed. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1988. textbook:Therrien, C. W. Discrete Random Signals and Statistical Signal Processing. Prentice-Hall, 1992. textbook:Van, H. L. Trees, Detection, Estimation and Modulation Theory, Part I. Wiley, 1968. level:Graduate instructors:Gregory Wornell,  Alan Willsky term:Spring 2004 features: description:This course&#160;examines the fundamentals of detection and estimation for signal processing, communications, and control. Topics covered include: vector spaces of random variables; Bayesian and Neyman-Pearson hypothesis testing; Bayesian and nonrandom parameter estimation; minimum-variance unbiased estimators and the Cramer-Rao bounds; representations for stochastic processes, shaping and whitening filters, and&#160;Karhunen-Loeve expansions; and&#160;detection and estimation from waveform observations. Advanced topics include: linear prediction and spectral estimation, and&#160;Wiener and Kalman filters.
6.435 | System Identification | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-435-system-identification-spring-2005 | textbook:Ljung, Lennart. System Identification: A Theory for the User. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Munther Dahleh term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course is offered to graduates and includes topics such as mathematical models of systems from observations of their behavior; time series, state-space, and input-output models; model structures, parametrization, and identifiability; non-parametric methods; prediction error methods for parameter estimation, convergence, consistency, and asymptotic distribution; relations to maximum likelihood estimation; recursive estimation; relation to Kalman filters; structure determination; order estimation; Akaike criterion; bounded but unknown noise model; and robustness and practical issues.
6.436J | Fundamentals of Probability | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-436j-fundamentals-of-probability-fall-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:David Gamarnik,  John Tsitsiklis term:Fall 2008 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This is a course on the fundamentals of probability geared towards first- or second-year graduate students who are interested in a rigorous development of the subject. The course covers most of the topics in 6.431 (sample space, random variables, expectations, transforms, Bernoulli and Poisson processes, finite Markov chains, limit theorems) but at a faster pace and in more depth. There are also a number of additional topics, such as language, terminology, and key results from measure theory; interchange of limits and expectations; multivariate Gaussian distributions; deeper understanding of conditional distributions and expectations.
6.438 | Algorithms for Inference | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-438-algorithms-for-inference-fall-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Devavrat Shah term:Fall 2014 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This is a graduate-level introduction to the principles of statistical inference with probabilistic models defined using graphical representations. The material in this course constitutes a common foundation for work in machine learning, signal processing, artificial intelligence, computer vision, control, and communication. Ultimately, the subject is about teaching you contemporary approaches to, and perspectives on, problems of statistical inference.
6.441 | Information Theory (Spring 2016) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-441-information-theory-spring-2016 | level:Graduate instructors:Yury Polyanskiy term:Spring 2016 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This is a graduate-level introduction to mathematics of information theory. We will cover both classical and modern topics, including information entropy, lossless data compression, binary hypothesis testing, channel coding, and lossy data compression.
6.441 | Information Theory (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-441-information-theory-spring-2010 | textbook:Cover, Thomas, and Joy Thomas. Elements of Information Theory. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2006. textbook:[* Lectures 14, 16-20]  Cover, Thomas. "The Role of Feedback in Communication." In Performance Limits in Communication Theory and Practice. Edited by J. K. Skwirzynski. New York, NY: Springer, 1988, pp. 225-235. level:Graduate instructors:Muriel Médard term:Spring 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:6.441 offers an introduction to the quantitative theory of information and its applications to reliable, efficient communication systems. Topics include mathematical definition and properties of information, source coding theorem, lossless compression of data, optimal lossless coding, noisy communication channels, channel coding theorem, the source channel separation theorem, multiple access channels, broadcast channels, Gaussian noise, and time-varying channels.
6.443J | Quantum Information Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-865j-quantum-information-science-spring-2006 | textbook:Nielsen, Michael A., and Isaac L. Chuang. Quantum Computation and Quantum Information. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Chuang,  Peter Shor term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This is an advanced graduate course on quantum computation and quantum information, for which prior knowledge of quantum mechanics is required. Topics include quantum computation, advanced quantum error correction codes, fault tolerance, quantum algorithms beyond factoring, properties of quantum entanglement, and quantum protocols and communication complexity.
6.450 | Principles of Digital Communication I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-450-principles-of-digital-communication-i-fall-2009 | textbook:Gallager, Robert G. Principles of Digital Communication. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2008. textbook:1.  Proakis, John G. Digital Communications. 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2000. textbook:2.  Proakis, John G., and Masoud Salehi. Communication Systems Engineering. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2001. textbook:3.  Wozencraft, John M., and Irwin Mark Jacobs. Principles of Communication Engineering. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1965. Reprint ed. Long Grove, IL: Waveland Press, 1990. textbook:4.  Wilson, Stephen G. Digital Modulation and Coding. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1995. textbook:5.  Gallager, Robert G. Information Theory and Reliable Communication. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1968. textbook:6.  Cover, Thomas M., and Joy A. Thomas. Elements of Information Theory. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley Interscience, 2006. textbook:7.  Tse, David, and Pramod Viswanath. Fundamentals of Wireless Communication. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:8.  Goldsmith, Andrea. Wireless Communications. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:9.  Strang, Gilbert. Introduction to Linear Algebra. 3rd ed. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2003. textbook:10.  Madhow, Upamanyu. Fundamentals of Digital Communication. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2008. textbook:11.  Barry, John R., Edward A. Lee, and David G. Messerschmitt. Digital Communication. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Soheil Feizi-Khankandi<br/>(Teaching Assistant),  Muriel Médard term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The course serves as an introduction to the theory and practice behind many of today's communications systems. 6.450 forms the first of a two-course sequence on digital communication. The second class, 6.451 Principles of Digital Communication II, is offered in the spring. Topics covered include: digital communications at the block diagram level, data compression, Lempel-Ziv algorithm, scalar and vector quantization, sampling and aliasing, the Nyquist criterion, PAM and QAM modulation, signal constellations, finite-energy waveform spaces, detection, and modeling and system design for wireless communication.
6.450 | Principles of Digital Communications I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-450-principles-of-digital-communications-i-fall-2006 | textbook:Proakis, John G. Digital Communications. 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2000. textbook:Proakis, John G., and Masoud Salehi. Communication Systems Engineering. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2001. textbook:Wozencraft, John M., and Irwin Mark Jacobs. Principles of Communication Engineering. Reprint ed. Long Grove, IL: Waveland Press, 1990. textbook:Wilson, Stephen G. Digital Modulation and Coding. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. textbook:Gallager, Robert G. Information Theory and Reliable Communication. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1968. textbook:Cover, Thomas M., and Joy A. Thomas. Elements of Information Theory. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley Interscience, 2006. textbook:Tse, David, and Pramod Viswanath. Fundamentals of Wireless Communication. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Goldsmith, Andrea. Wireless Communications. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Strang, Gilbert. Introduction to Linear Algebra. 3rd ed. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Lizhong Zheng,  Robert Gallager term:Fall 2006 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:The course serves as an introduction to the theory and practice behind many of today's communications systems. 6.450 forms the first of a two-course sequence on digital communication. The second class, 6.451, is offered in the spring.Topics covered include: digital communications at the block diagram level, data compression, Lempel-Ziv algorithm, scalar and vector quantization, sampling and aliasing, the Nyquist criterion, PAM and QAM modulation, signal constellations, finite-energy waveform spaces, detection, and modeling and system design for wireless communication.
6.451 | Principles of Digital Communication II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-451-principles-of-digital-communication-ii-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:David Forney term:Spring 2005 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is the second of a two-term sequence with  6.450. The focus is on coding techniques for approaching the Shannon limit of additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) channels, their performance analysis, and design principles. After a review of 6.450 and the Shannon limit for AWGN channels, the course begins by discussing small signal constellations, performance analysis and coding gain, and hard-decision and soft-decision decoding. It continues with binary linear block codes, Reed-Muller codes, finite fields, Reed-Solomon and BCH codes, binary linear convolutional codes, and the Viterbi algorithm. More advanced topics include trellis representations of binary linear block codes and trellis-based decoding; codes on graphs; the sum-product and min-sum algorithms; the BCJR algorithm; turbo codes, LDPC codes and RA codes; and performance of LDPC codes with iterative decoding. Finally, the course addresses coding for the bandwidth-limited regime, including lattice codes, trellis-coded modulation, multilevel coding and shaping. If time permits, it covers equalization of linear Gaussian channels.
6.452 | Principles of Wireless Communications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-452-principles-of-wireless-communications-spring-2006 | textbook:Tse, David, and Pramod Viswanath. Fundamentals of Wireless Communication. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Lizhong Zheng term:Spring 2006 features:Projects (no examples) description:This course is an introduction to the design, analysis, and fundamental limits of wireless transmission systems. Topics to be covered include: wireless channel and system models; fading and diversity; resource management and power control; multiple-antenna and MIMO systems; space-time codes and decoding algorithms; multiple-access techniques and multiuser detection; broadcast codes and precoding; cellular and ad-hoc network topologies; OFDM and ultrawideband systems; and architectural issues.
6.453 | Quantum Optical Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-453-quantum-optical-communication-fall-2008 | textbook:[GK] =  Gerry, Christopher C., and Peter L. Knight. Introductory Quantum Optics. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:[Loudon] =  Loudon, Rodney. The Quantum Theory of Light. Oxford, United Kingdom: Clarendon Press, 1973. textbook:[Louisell] =  Louisell, William H. Quantum Statistical Properties of Radiation. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1973. Reprint, New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1990. textbook:[MW] =  Mandel, Leonard, and Emil Wolf. Optical Coherence and Quantum Optics. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:[NC] =  Nielsen, Michael A., and Isaac L. Chuang. Quantum Computation and Quantum Information. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Gagliardi, Robert M., and Sherman Karp. Optical Communications. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1976, chapter 2. textbook:Haus, Herman A. Electromagnetic Noise and Quantum Optical Measurements. New York, NY: Springer Verlag, 2000, chapter 11. textbook:Bouwmeester, Dirk, Artur Ekert, and Anton Zeilinger, eds. The Physics of Quantum Information: Quantum Cryptography, Quantum Teleportation, and Quantum Computation. New York, NY: Springer Verlag, 2000, chapter 2. textbook:Saleh, Bahaa E. A., and Malvin C. Teich. "Coupled- Wave Theory of Three-Wave Mixing." Section 19.4 in Fundamentals of Photonics. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1991. level:Graduate instructors:Jeffrey Shapiro term:Fall 2008 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is offered to graduate students and covers topics in five major areas of quantum optical communication: quantum optics, single-mode and two-mode quantum systems, multi-mode quantum systems, nonlinear optics, and quantum systems theory. Specific topics include the following: Dirac notation quantum mechanics; harmonic oscillator quantization; number states, coherent states, and squeezed states; P-representation and classical fields; direct, homodyne, and heterodyne detection; linear propagation loss; phase insensitive and phase sensitive amplifiers; entanglement and teleportation; field quantization; quantum photodetection; phase-matched interactions; optical parametric amplifiers; generation of squeezed states, photon-twin beams, non-classical fourth-order interference, and polarization entanglement; optimum binary detection; quantum precision measurements; and quantum cryptography.
6.524J | Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics (BE.410J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-410j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-be-410j-spring-2003 | textbook:Daune, Michel. Chapter 2 in Molecular Biophysics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Dill, K. A., and S. Bromberg. Chapters 6, 8 and 10 in Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Boal, David H. Chapter 2 in Mechanics of the Cell. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Howard, Johnathon. Chapters 5 and 10 in Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Ward, J. P. Solid Mechanics. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Lodish, H., et. al. Molecular Cell Biology. 3rd. ed. New York, NY: Scientific American Books/W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Malvern, Lawrence E. Chapter 6 in Introduction to the Mechanics of a Continuous Medium. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1969, pp. 278-282. textbook:Fung, Y. C. Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:Ferry, J. D. "The Nature of Viscoelastic Behavior." Chapter 1 in Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. level:Graduate instructors:Roger D. Kamm,  Patrick Doyle,  Maxine Jonas<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales. Topics include: structure of tissues and the molecular basis for macroscopic properties; chemical and electrical effects on mechanical behavior; cell mechanics, motility and adhesion; biomembranes; biomolecular mechanics and molecular motors. Experimental methods for probing structures at the tissue, cellular, and molecular levels will also be investigated.This course was originally co-developed by Professors Alan Grodzinsky, Roger Kamm, and L. Mahadevan.
6.541J | Speech Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-541j-speech-communication-spring-2004 | textbook:The readings listed below for the course's lecture (LE) sessions are from the required course textbook: Stevens, Kenneth. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Fant, G. Acoustic Theory of Speech Production. The Hague: Mouton, 1970. textbook:Flanagan, J. L. Speech Analysis, Synthesis and Perception. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1972. textbook:Halle, M., and K. N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire: Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Jakobson, R., G. Fant, and M. Halle. Preliminaries to Speech Analysis. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 1963. textbook:Ladefoged, P., and I. Maddieson. The Sounds of the World's Languages. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Maddieson, I. Patterns of Sounds. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984. textbook:Minifie, F., ed. Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders. San Diego: Singular, 1994. textbook:O'Shaughnessy, D. Speech Communication: Human and Machine. New York, NY: IEEE Press, 1999. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and B. -H. Juang. Fundamentals of Speech Recognition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. textbook:Atal, B. S., J. L. Miller, and R. D. Kent, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Processing. Woodbury NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Perception. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:———, eds. Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Production. Woodbury, NY: Acoustical Society of America, 1991. textbook:Pickett, J. M. The Acoustics of Speech Communication: Fundamentals, Speech Perception Theory, and Technology. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn & Bacon: 1998. textbook:Hardcastle, W. J., and J. Laver, eds. The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, Ltd., 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Kenneth Stevens term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:6.541J surveys the structural properties of natural languages, with special emphasis on the sound pattern. Topics covered include: representation of the lexicon; physiology of speech production; articulatory phonetics; acoustical theory of speech production; acoustical and articulatory descriptions of phonetic features and of prosodic aspects of speech; perception of speech; models of lexical access and of speech production and planning; and applications to recognition and generation of speech by machine, and to the study of speech disorders.
6.542J | Laboratory on the Physiology, Acoustics, and Perception of Speech | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-542j-laboratory-on-the-physiology-acoustics-and-perception-of-speech-fall-2005 | textbook:This section shows the set of readings for each lab, which are to be read before class. The readings are from the required textbook: Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Joseph S. Perkell,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Fall 2005 features:Projects (no examples) description:The course focuses on experimental investigations of speech processes. Topics include: measurement of articulatory movements, measurements of pressures and airflows in speech production, computer-aided waveform analysis and spectral analysis of speech, synthesis of speech, perception and discrimination of speechlike sounds, speech prosody, models for speech recognition, speech disorders, and other topics.Two 1-hour lectures per weekTwo labs per weekBrief lab reportsTerm project, with short term paperNo exams
6.543J | The Lexicon and Its Features | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-941j-the-lexicon-and-its-features-spring-2007 | textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 1-2. textbook:Stevens, K. N. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, chapters 3-6. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Underspecification and Markedness." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996. textbook:Steriade, Donca. "Closure, Release, and Nasal Conditions." In Phonetics and Phonology 5: Nasals, Nasalization, and the Velum. Edited by Marie Huffman and Rena Krakow. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1993. textbook:———. "Paradigm Uniformity and the Phonetics-Phonology Boundary." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology V: Acquisition and the Lexicon. Edited by Michael B. Broe and Janet B. Pierrehumbert. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Wright, R. "Factors of Lexical Competition in Vowel Articulation." In Papers in Laboratory Phonology VI. Edited by John Local, Richard Ogden, and Rosalind Temple. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Remez, Robert. "A Guide to Research on the Perception of Speech." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Kenstowicz, Michael, and Charles Kisseberth. "Phonological Sketches." Chapter 4 in Generative Phonology: Description and Theory. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1986. textbook:———. "Articulatory-Acoustic-Auditory Relationships." Chapter 15 in The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by William J. Hardcastle and John Laver. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 1997/1999. textbook:Halle, M., and Kenneth N. Stevens. "Knowledge of Language and The Sounds of Speech." In Music, Language, Speech and Brain. Edited by J. Sundberg, L. Nord, and R. Carlson. Basingstoke, Hampshire, UK: Palgrave Macmillan Press, 1991, pp. 1-19. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "The Dispersion Theory of Contrast." Chapter 2 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clements, G. N., and Elizabeth V. Hume. "The Internal Organization of Speech Sounds." In The Handbook of Phonological Theory. Edited by John A. Goldsmith. Cambridge, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 1996, pp. 245-306. textbook:Flemming, Edward. "Auditory Features in Phonology." Chapter 1 in Auditory Representations in Phonology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Clemens, G. N. "Representational Economy in Constraint-based Phonology." In Distinctive Feature Theory. Edited by T. Alan Hall. New York, NY: Mouton de Gruyter, 2001. textbook:Mielke, Jeff. The Emergence of Distinctive Features. Ohio State University dissertation, 2004. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Peperkamp, Sharon, Katrin Skoruppa, and emmanual Dupoux. "The Role of Phonetic Naturalness in Phonological Rule Acquisition." Proceedings of the 30th Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development. Vol. 1. Edited by David Bamman, Tatiana Magnitskaia, and Colleen Zaller. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press, 2006, pp. 464-475. textbook:Luce, Paul A., David B. Pisoni, and Steven D. Goldinger. "Similarity Neighborhoods of Spoken Words." Cognitive Models of Speech Processing: Psycholinguistic and Computational Perspectives. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995. textbook:Johnson, Keith. "Speaker Normalization in Speech Perception." In The Handbook of Speech Perception. Edited by David Pisoni and Robert Remez. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2005, pp. 363-389. textbook:Fitzpatrick, J., and L. R. Wheeldon. "Phonology and Phonetics in Psycholinguistic Models of Speech Perception." In Phonological Knowledge: Conceptual and Empirical Knowledge. Edited by Noel Burton-Roberts, Philip Carr, and Gerard Dougherty. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Pierrehumbert, Janet. "Exemplar Dynamics: Word Frequency, Lenition, and Contrast." In Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Edited by Joan L. Bybee and Paul Hopper. Philadelphia, PA: John Benjamins Publishing Company, 2001. textbook:Segui, Juan, and Ludovic Ferrand. "The Role of the Syllable in Speech Perception and Production." In Phonetics, Phonology, and Cognition. Edited by Jaques Durand and Bernard Laks. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Massaro, Dominic W. "Psychological Aspects of Speech Perception: Implications for Research and Theory." In Handbook of Psycholinguistics. Edited by Morton Ann Gemsbacher. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1994. textbook:Repp, Bruno H., and Alvin M. Liberman. "Phonetic Category Boundaries are Flexible." In Categorical Perception: The Groundwork of Cognition. Edited by S. Harnad. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. David Gow,  Donca Steriade,  Edward Flemming,  Kenneth Stevens,  Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course provides an overview of the distinctive features which distinguish sound categories of languages of the world. Theories which relate these categories to their acoustic and articulatory correlates, both universally and in particular languages, are covered. Models of word recognition by listeners, features, and phonological structure are also discussed. In addition, the course offers a variety of perspectives on these issues, drawn from Electrical Engineering, Linguistics and Cognitive Science.
6.551J | Acoustics of Speech and Hearing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-551j-acoustics-of-speech-and-hearing-fall-2004 | textbook:Denes, P. B., and E. N. Pinson. The Speech Chain: The physics and biology of spoken speech. 2nd ed. New York: W. H. Freeman, 1993. textbook:Kinsler, Frey, Coppens, and Saunders. Fundamentals of Acoustics. San Diego: Academic Press, 1982. textbook:Beranek, Leo. Acoustics. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1986. textbook:Stevens, Ken. Acoustic Phonetics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Rosen, Stuart, and Peter Howell. Signals and System for Speech and Hearing. San Diego: Academic Press, 1991. textbook:Fletcher, Neville. Acoustic Systems in Biology. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1992. textbook:Yost, William. Fundamentals of Hearing Science. 3rd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1994. level:Graduate instructors:Christopher Shera,  John Rosowski,  Kenneth Stevens,  Louis Braida term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The Acoustics of Speech and Hearing is an H-Level graduate course that reviews the physical processes involved in the production, propagation and reception of human speech. Particular attention is paid to how the acoustics and mechanics of the speech and auditory system define what sounds we are capable of producing and what sounds we can sense. Areas of discussion include:  the acoustic cues used in determining the direction of a sound source, the acoustic and mechanical mechanisms involved in speech production and the acoustic and mechanical mechanism used to transduce and analyze sounds in the ear. 
6.555J | Biomedical Signal and Image Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-582j-biomedical-signal-and-image-processing-spring-2007 | textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and R. W. Schafer, with J. R. Buck. Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1999. textbook:Papoulis, A., and S. U. Pillai. Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2001. textbook:Siebert, W. M. Circuits, Signals and Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1985. textbook:Oppenheim, A. V., and A. S. Willsky, with H. Nawab. Signals and Systems. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River: Prentice-Hall, 1996. textbook:Karu, Z. Z. Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple. Huntsville, AL: ZiZi Press, 1995. textbook:Duda, R., and P. Hart. Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1973. textbook:Duda, R., P. Hart, and D. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2000. textbook:Bishop, C. Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996. textbook:Nabney, I. Netlab: Algorithms for Pattern Recognition. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Clifford, G., F. Azuajae, and P. McSharry. Advanced Methods and Tools for ECG Data Analysis. Norwood, MA: Artech House, 2006. textbook:Rabiner, L. R., and R. W. Schafer. Digital Processing of Speech Signals. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1978. textbook:Quatieri, T. F. Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing: Principles and Practice. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2001. textbook:Lim, J. S. Two-Dimensional Signal and Image Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. textbook:Epstein, C. L. Mathematics of Medical Imaging. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Webb, S. The Physics of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1988. textbook:Westbrook, C., C. Kaut Roth, and T. Talbot. MRI in Practice. 3rd ed. Malden, MA: Blackwell Science, Inc., 2005. textbook:Macovski, A. Medical Imaging Systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1983. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Gari Clifford, Dr. John Fisher, Dr. Julie Greenberg, Dr. William Wells term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course presents the fundamentals of digital signal processing with particular emphasis on problems in biomedical research and clinical medicine. It covers principles and algorithms for processing both deterministic and random signals. Topics include data acquisition, imaging, filtering, coding, feature extraction, and modeling. The focus of the course is a series of labs that provide practical experience in processing physiological data, with examples from cardiology, speech processing, and medical imaging. The labs are done in MATLAB&reg; during weekly lab sessions that take place in an electronic classroom. Lectures cover signal processing topics relevant to the lab exercises, as well as background on the biological signals processed in the labs.
6.561J | Fields, Forces, and Flows in Biological Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-430j-fields-forces-and-flows-in-biological-systems-fall-2015 | textbook:Grodzinsky, Alan. Field, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems. Garland Science, 2011. level:Graduate instructors:Mark Bathe,  Alan Grodzinsky term:Fall 2015 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers the fundamental driving forces for transport&mdash;chemical gradients, electrical interactions, and fluid flow&mdash;as applied to the biology and biophysics of molecules, cells, and tissues.
6.581J | Foundations of Algorithms and Computational Techniques in Systems Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-482j-foundations-of-algorithms-and-computational-techniques-in-systems-biology-spring-2006 | textbook:Schlick, T. Molecular Modeling and Simulation: An Interdisciplinary Guide. New York, NY: Springer, 2002. textbook:Allen, M. P., and D. J. Tildesley. Computer Simulation of Liquids. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1989. textbook:Trefethen, L. N., and D. Bau, III. Numerical Linear Algebra. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1997. textbook:Branden, C.-I., and J. Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Routledge, 1999. textbook:Bertero, M., and P. Boccacci. Introduction to Inverse Problems in Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Tidor,  Jacob White term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This subject describes and illustrates computational approaches to solving problems in systems biology. A series of case-studies will be explored that demonstrate how an effective match between the statement of a biological problem and the selection of an appropriate algorithm or computational technique can lead to fundamental advances. The subject will cover several discrete and numerical algorithms used in simulation, feature extraction, and optimization for molecular, network, and systems models in biology.
6.630 | Electromagnetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-630-electromagnetics-fall-2006 | textbook:Kong, J. A. Electromagnetic Wave Theory. Cambridge, MA: EMW, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Jin Au Kong term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.630 is an introductory subject on electromagnetics, emphasizing fundamental concepts and applications of Maxwell equations. Topics covered include: polarization, dipole antennas, wireless communications, forces and energy, phase matching, dielectric waveguides and optical fibers, transmission line theory and circuit concepts, antennas, and equivalent principle. Examples deal with electrodynamics, propagation, guidance, and radiation of electromagnetic waves.
6.632 | Electromagnetic Wave Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-632-electromagnetic-wave-theory-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Jin Au Kong term:Spring 2003 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.632 is a graduate subject on electromagnetic wave theory, emphasizing mathematical approaches, problem solving, and physical interpretation. Topics covered include: waves in media, equivalence principle, duality and complementarity, Huygens' principle, Fresnel and Fraunhofer diffraction, dyadic Green's functions, Lorentz transformation, and Maxwell-Minkowski theory. Examples deal with limiting cases of Maxwell's theory and diffraction and scattering of electromagnetic waves.
6.635 | Advanced Electromagnetism | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-635-advanced-electromagnetism-spring-2003 | textbook:Kong, J. A. Electromagnetic Wave Theory. Cambridge, MA: EMW Publishing, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Jin Au Kong term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:In 6.635, topics covered include: special relativity, electrodynamics of moving media, waves in dispersive media, microstrip integrated circuits, quantum optics, remote sensing, radiative transfer theory, scattering by rough surfaces, effective permittivities, random media, Green's functions for planarly layered media, integral equations in electromagnetics, method of moments, time domain method of moments, EM waves in periodic structures: photonic crystals and negative refraction. 
6.637 | Optical Signals, Devices, and Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-637-optical-signals-devices-and-systems-spring-2003 | textbook:Goodman, J. W. Fourier Optics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1996. textbook:Yariv, A. Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1997. textbook:Saleh, B., and M. Teich. Fundamentals of Photonics. New York, NY: Wiley, 1991. textbook:Hecht, E. Optics. 4th ed. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Cardinal Warde term:Spring 2003 features: description:6.637 covers the fundamentals of optical signals and modern optical devices and systems from a practical point of view. Its goal is to help students develop a thorough understanding of the underlying physical principles such that device and system design and performance can be predicted, analyzed, and understood. Most optical systems involve the use of one or more of the following: sources (e.g., lasers and light-emitting diodes), light modulation components (e.g., liquid-crystal light modulators), transmission media (e.g., free space or fibers), photodetectors (e.g., photodiodes, photomultiplier tubes), information storage devices (e.g., optical disk), processing systems (e.g., imaging and spatial filtering systems) and displays (LCOS microdisplays). These are the topics covered by this course.
6.641 | Electromagnetic Fields, Forces, and Motion (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-641-electromagnetic-fields-forces-and-motion-spring-2009 | textbook:[Z] = Zahn, Markus. Electromagnetic Field Theory: A Problem Solving Approach. Malabar, FL: Krieger Pub. Co., 2003. textbook:[W/M] = Woodson, H. H., and J. R. Melcher. "Part I (Discrete Systems), and Part II (Fields, Forces, and Motion)." In Electromechanical Dynamics. Malabar, FL: Krieger Pub. Co., 1985. textbook:[H/M] = Haus, Hermann A., and James R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1989. level:Graduate instructors:Markus Zahn term:Spring 2009 features:Faculty introduction - video, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course examines electric and magnetic quasistatic forms of Maxwell's equations applied to dielectric, conduction, and magnetization boundary value problems. Topics covered include: electromagnetic forces, force densities, and stress tensors, including magnetization and polarization; thermodynamics of electromagnetic fields, equations of motion, and energy conservation; applications to synchronous, induction, and commutator machines; sensors and transducers; microelectromechanical systems; propagation and stability of electromechanical waves; and charge transport phenomena. Acknowledgments The instructor would like to thank Thomas Larsen and Matthew Pegler for transcribing into LaTeX the homework problems, homework solutions, and exam solutions.
6.641 | Electromagnetic Fields, Forces, and Motion (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-641-electromagnetic-fields-forces-and-motion-spring-2005 | textbook:Zahn, Markus. Electromagnetic Field Theory: A Problem Solving Approach . Malabar, FL: Krieger Pub. Co., 2003. textbook:Woodson, H. H., and J. R. Melcher. "Part I (Discrete Systems), and Part II (Fields, Forces, and Motion)." In Electromechanical Dynamics. Malabar, FL: Krieger Pub. Co., 1985. textbook:Haus, Hermann A., and James R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1989. level:Graduate instructors:Markus Zahn term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:6.641 examines electric and magnetic quasistatic forms of Maxwell's equations applied to dielectric, conduction, and magnetization boundary value problems. Topics covered include: electromagnetic forces, force densities, and stress tensors, including magnetization and polarization; thermodynamics of electromagnetic fields, equations of motion, and energy conservation; applications to synchronous, induction, and commutator machines; sensors and transducers; microelectromechanical systems; propagation and stability of electromechanical waves; and charge transport phenomena. Acknowledgement The instructor would like to thank Thomas Larsen for transcribing into LaTeX selected homework problems, homework solutions, and exams.
6.642 | Continuum Electromechanics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-642-continuum-electromechanics-fall-2008 | textbook:Melcher, James R. Continuum Electromechanics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1981. textbook:Zahn, Markus. Electromagnetic Field Theory: A Problem Solving Approach. Malabar, FL: Krieger Publishing, Co., 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Markus Zahn term:Fall 2008 features:Faculty introduction - video, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course focuses on laws, approximations and relations of continuum electromechanics. Topics include mechanical and electromechanical transfer relations, statics and dynamics of electromechanical systems having a static equilibrium, electromechanical flows, and field coupling with thermal and molecular diffusion. Also covered are electrokinetics, streaming interactions, application to materials processing, magnetohydrodynamic and electrohydrodynamic pumps and generators, ferrohydrodynamics, physiochemical systems, heat transfer, continuum feedback control, electron beam devices, and plasma dynamics. Acknowledgements The instructor would like to thank Xuancheng Shao and Anyang Hou for transcribing into LaTeX the problem set solutions and exam solutions, respectively.
6.651J | Introduction to Plasma Physics I (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-611j-introduction-to-plasma-physics-i-fall-2006 | textbook:Chen, F. F. Introduction to Plasma Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 1984. textbook:Shohet, J. L. The Plasma State. San Diego, CA: Academic Press Inc., 1971. textbook:Tanenbaum, B. S. Plasma Physics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1967. textbook:Hazeltine, R. D., and F. L. Waelbroeck. The Framework of Plasma Physics. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 2004. textbook:Goldston, R. J., and P. H. Rutherford. Introduction to Plasma Physics. Philadelphia, PA: IOP Publishing, 1995. textbook:Clemmow, P. C., and J. P. Dougherty. Electrodynamics of Particles and Plasmas. New York, NY: Perseus Books, 1989. textbook:Schmidt, G. Physics of High Temperature Plasmas. 2nd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1979. textbook:Dendy, R., ed. Plasma Physics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Krall, N. A., and A. W. Trivelpiece. Principles of Plasma Physics. Berkeley, CA: San Francisco Press, 1986. textbook:Ichimaru, S. Principles of Plasma Physics - A Statistical Approach. Boston, MA: Addison Wesley Publishing Company, 1973. textbook:J. P. Freidberg. Ideal Magnetohydrodynamics. New York, NY: Springer, 1987. textbook:Stix, T. H. Waves in Plasmas. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Hutchinson, I. H. Principles of Plasma Diagnostics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Rose, D. J., and M. Clark, Jr. Plasmas and Controlled Fusion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1961. textbook:Miyamoto, K. Plasma Physics for Nuclear Fusion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Wesson, J. Tokamaks. 3rd ed. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Tajima, T., and K. Shibata. Plasma Astrophysics. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Ron Parker term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The plasma state dominates the visible universe, and is important in fields as diverse as Astrophysics and Controlled Fusion. Plasma is often referred to as "the fourth state of matter." This course introduces the study of the nature and behavior of plasma. A variety of models to describe plasma behavior are presented.
6.651J | Introduction to Plasma Physics I (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-611j-introduction-to-plasma-physics-i-fall-2003 | textbook:Chen, F. F.Introduction to Plasma Physics. 2nd ed. Plenum Press, 1995. textbook:Shohet, J. L.The Plasma State. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1971. textbook:Tanenbaum, B. S.Plasma Physics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1967. textbook:Hazeltine, R. D., and F. L. Waelbroeck.The Framework of Plasma Physics. NewYork, NY: HarperCollins Publishers, 1998. textbook:Goldston, R. J., and P. H. Rutherford.Introduction to Plasma Physics. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis Inc., 1995. textbook:Clemmow, P. C., and J. P. Dougherty.Electrodynamics of Particles and Plasmas. NewYork, NY: Perseus Books, 1989. textbook:Spitzer, L., Jr.Physics of Fully Ionized Gases. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Interscience-John Wiley, 1962. textbook:Schmidt, G.Physics of High Temperature Plasmas. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1979. textbook:Dendy, R., ed.Plasma Physics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1994. textbook:Krall, N. A., and A. W. Trivelpiece.Principles of Plasma Physics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1973. Reissued by San Francisco Press, 1986. textbook:Ichimaru, S.Principles of Plasma Physics - A Statistical Approach. W. H. Benjamin, 1973. textbook:Stix, T. H.Waves in Plasmas. American Institute of Physics, 1992. textbook:Hutchinson, I. H.Principles of Plasma Diagnostics. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1987. textbook:Rose, D. J., and M. Clark, Jr.Plasmas and Controlled Fusion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press; New York, NY: John Wiley, 1961. textbook:Miyamoto, K.Plasma Physics for Nuclear Fusion. Revised ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Wesson, J.Tokamaks. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1987. textbook:Tajima, T., and K. Shibata.Plasma Astrophysics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Ian Hutchinson,  Jeffrey Freidberg term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes description:In this course, students will learn about plasmas, the fourth state of matter. The plasma state dominates the visible universe, and is of increasing economic importance. Plasmas behave in lots of interesting and sometimes unexpected ways.The course is intended only as a first plasma physics course, but includes&nbsp;critical concepts needed for a foundation for further study. A solid undergraduate background in classical physics, electromagnetic theory including Maxwell's equations, and mathematical familiarity with partial differential equations and complex analysis are prerequisites.The course introduces plasma phenomena relevant to energy generation by controlled thermonuclear fusion and to astrophysics, coulomb collisions and transport processes, motion of charged particles in magnetic fields, plasma confinement schemes, MHD models, simple equilibrium and stability analysis. It also covers two-fluid hydrodynamic plasma models, wave propagation in a magnetic field, kinetic theory, Vlasov plasma model, electron plasma waves and Landau damping, ion-acoustic waves, and&nbsp;streaming instabilities. A subject description tailored to fit the background and interests of the attending students is distributed shortly before and at the beginning of the subject.
6.661 | Receivers, Antennas, and Signals | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-661-receivers-antennas-and-signals-spring-2003 | textbook:Couch II, L. W. Digital and Analog Communication Systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1996. textbook:Feher, Kamilio. Digital Communications-Satellite/Earth Station Engineering. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall Inc., 1983. textbook:Oppenheim, Alan V., et al. Signals and Systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1996. textbook:Hsu, Hwei P. Probability, Random Variables and Random Processes . New York, NY: McGraw-Hill/Schaum’s Outline Series, 1996. textbook:Schwartz, Mischa. Information Transmission, Modulation, and Noise. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1980. textbook:Kraus. Radioastronomy. Cygnus-Quasar Books, 1986. textbook:Thompson, Moran, and Swenson. Interferometry and Synthesis in Radio Astronomy. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1986. textbook:Skolnik, Merrill. Introduction to Radar Systems. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1980. textbook:Yariv, Amnon. Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1997. textbook:Staelin, Morgenthaler, and Kong. Electromagnetic Waves. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. textbook:Sklar, Bernard. Digital Communications. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1988, 776 pages. textbook:Rieke, G. H. Detection of Light: from Ultraviolet to the Submillimeter. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1994, 344 pages. textbook:Manolakis, D. G., V. K. Ingle, and S. M. Kogon. Statistical and Adaptive Signal Processing. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1999, 796 pages. level:Graduate instructors:David Staelin term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:This course explores the detection and measurement of radio and optical signals encountered in communications, astronomy, remote sensing, instrumentation, and radar. Topics covered include: statistical analysis of signal processing systems, including radiometers, spectrometers, interferometers, and digital correlation systems; matched filters and ambiguity functions; communications channel performance; measurement of random electromagnetic fields, angular filtering properties of antennas, interferometers, and aperture synthesis systems; and&nbsp;radiative transfer and parameter estimation.
6.685 | Electric Machines | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-685-electric-machines-fall-2013 | level:Graduate instructors:James L. Kirtley Jr. term:Fall 2013 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course teaches the principles and analysis of electromechanical systems. Students will develop analytical techniques for predicting device and system interaction characteristics as well as learn to design major classes of electric machines. Problems used in the course are intended to strengthen understanding of the phenomena and interactions in electromechanics, and include examples from current research.
6.690 | Introduction to Electric Power Systems (Spring 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-061-introduction-to-electric-power-systems-spring-2011 | textbook:Kirtley, James. Electric Power Principles: Sources, Conversion, Distribution and Use. Wiley, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:James L. Kirtley Jr. term:Spring 2011 features:Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is an introductory subject in the field of electric power systems and electrical to mechanical energy conversion. Electric power has become increasingly important as a way of transmitting and transforming energy in industrial, military and transportation uses. Electric power systems are also at the heart of alternative energy systems, including wind and solar electric, geothermal and small scale hydroelectric generation.
6.691 | Seminar in Electric Power Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-691-seminar-in-electric-power-systems-spring-2006 | textbook:Background information and many of the problems are available from the textbook: Bergen, A., and V. Vittal. Power Systems Analysis. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:James L. Kirtley Jr. term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course comprises of a seminar on planning and operation of modern electric power systems. Content varies with current interests of instructor and class; emphasis on engineering aspects, but economic issues may be examined too. Core topics include: overview of power system structure and operation; representation of components, including transmission lines, transformers, generating plants, loads; power flow analysis, dynamics and control of multimachine systems, steady-state and transient stability, system protection; economic dispatch; mobile and isolated power systems; computation and simulation.
6.695 | Engineering, Economics and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-934-engineering-economics-and-regulation-of-the-electric-power-sector-spring-2010 | textbook:Perez-Arriaga, Ignacio J., Hugh Rudnick, and Michel Rivier. "Electric Energy Systems—An Overview." Chapter 1 in Electric Energy Systems: Analysis and Operation. Gomez-Exposito, Antonio, Antonio J. Conejo, and Claudio Canizares, eds. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2009. textbook:Sioshansi, Fareidoon P., and Wolfgang Pfaffenberger, eds. Electricity Market Reform: An International Perspective. Oxford, UK: Elsevier Science, 2006. textbook:Ventosa, Mariano, and Pedro Linares. "The Economics of Regulation: Competitive Activities." Energy Regulators Training Course. Florence, Italy: Florence School of Regulation, 2003. O'Neill, Richard, Udi Helman, Benjamin Hobbs, and Ross Baldick. "Independent System Operators in the USA: History, Lessons Learned, and Prospects." Chapter 14 in Electricity Market Reform: An International Perspective. Edited by Sioshansi, Fareidoon P., and Wolfgang Pfaffenberger. Oxford, UK: Elsevier Science, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Ignacio Perez-Arriaga term:Spring 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:The course presents an in-depth interdisciplinary perspective of electric power systems, with regulation providing the link among the engineering, economic, legal and environmental viewpoints. Generation dispatch, demand response, optimal network flows, risk allocation, reliability of service, renewable energy sources, ancillary services, tariff design, distributed generation, rural electrification, environmental impacts and strategic sustainability issues will be among the topics addressed under both traditional and competitive regulatory frameworks.
6.719 | Introduction to Nanoelectronics (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-701-introduction-to-nanoelectronics-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Marc  Baldo term:Spring 2010 features:Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Traditionally, progress in electronics has been driven by miniaturization. But as electronic devices approach the molecular scale, classical models for device behavior must be abandoned. To prepare for the next generation of electronic devices, this class teaches the theory of current, voltage and resistance from atoms up. To describe electrons at the nanoscale, we will begin with an introduction to the principles of quantum mechanics, including quantization, the wave-particle duality, wavefunctions and Schrödinger's equation. Then we will consider the electronic properties of molecules, carbon nanotubes and crystals, including energy band formation and the origin of metals, insulators and semiconductors. Electron conduction will be taught beginning with ballistic transport and concluding with a derivation of Ohm's law. We will then compare ballistic to bulk MOSFETs. The class will conclude with a discussion of possible fundamental limits to computation.
6.720J | Integrated Microelectronic Devices | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-720j-integrated-microelectronic-devices-spring-2007 | textbook:Muller, Richard S., Theodore I. Kamins, and Mansun Chan. Device Electronics for Integrated Circuits. 3rd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2002. textbook:Pierret, Robert F. Semiconductor Device Fundamentals. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 1996. textbook:Streetman, Ben G. Solid State Electronics Devices. 4th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1995. textbook:McKelvey, John P. Solid State and Semiconductor Physics. Melbourne, FL: Krieger Pub Co, 1982. textbook:Tsividis, Yannis P. Operation and Modeling of the MOS Transistor. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1987. level:Graduate instructors:Jesús del Alamo term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.720 examines the physics of microelectronic semiconductor devices for silicon integrated circuit applications. Topics covered include: semiconductor fundamentals, p-n junction, metal-oxide semiconductor structure, metal-semiconductor junction, MOS field-effect transistor, and bipolar junction transistor. The course emphasizes physical understanding of device operation through energy band diagrams and short-channel MOSFET device design. Issues in modern device scaling are also outlined. The course is worth 2 Engineering Design Points.AcknowledgmentsProf. Jesús del Alamo would like to thank Prof. Harry Tuller for his support of and help in teaching the course.
6.728 | Applied Quantum and Statistical Physics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-728-applied-quantum-and-statistical-physics-fall-2006 | textbook:Hagelstein, Peter L., Stephen D. Senturia, and Terry P. Orlando. Introduction to Applied Quantum and Statistical Physics. New York, NY: Wiley, 2004. textbook:Polkinghorne, J. Quantum Theory: A Very Short Introduction. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:Liboff, R. L. Introductory Quantum Mechanics. 3rd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Longman, 1998. textbook:Greenstein, George, and Arthur G. Zajonc. The Quantum Challenge: Modern Research on the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Sudbury, MA: Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 2006. textbook:Kroemer, Herbert. Quantum Mechanics. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1994. textbook:Gasiorowicz, Stephen. Quantum Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley, 1996. textbook:Griffiths, David J. Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1995. textbook:Morrison, Michael A. Understanding Quantum Physics. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1990. textbook:Morrison, Michael A., Thomas L. Estle, and Neal F. Lane. Understanding More Quantum Physics. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1991. textbook:Harrison, Walter A. Applied Quantum Mechanics. River Edge, NJ: World Scientific, 2000. textbook:Eisberg, Robert, and Robert Resnick. Quantum Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley, 1985. textbook:Kittel, Charles, and Herbert Kroemer. Thermal Physics. 2nd ed. San Francisco, CA: W. H. Freeman, 1980. textbook:Mandl, Franz. Statistical Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley, 1988. textbook:James, J. F. A Student's Guide to Fourier Transforms: With Applications in Physics and Engineering. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Brigham, E. O. The Fast Fourier Transform. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1974. level:Graduate instructors:Terry Orlando term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.728 is offered under the department's "Devices, Circuits, and Systems" concentration. The course covers concepts in elementary quantum mechanics and statistical physics, introduces applied quantum physics, and emphasizes an experimental basis for quantum mechanics. Concepts covered include: Schrodinger's equation applied to the free particle, tunneling, the harmonic oscillator, and hydrogen atom, variational methods, Fermi-Dirac, Bose-Einstein, and Boltzmann distribution functions, and simple models for metals, semiconductors, and devices such as electron microscopes, scanning tunneling microscope, thermonic emitters, atomic force microscope, and others.
6.730 | Physics for Solid-State Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-730-physics-for-solid-state-applications-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Rajeev Ram,  Terry Orlando term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course examines classical and quantum models of electrons and lattice vibrations in solids, emphasizing physical models for elastic properties, electronic transport, and heat capacity. Topics covered include: crystal lattices, electronic energy band structures, phonon dispersion relatons, effective mass theorem, semiclassical equations of motion, and impurity states in semiconductors, band structure and transport properties of selected semiconductors, and connection of quantum theory of solids with quasifermi levels and Boltzmann transport used in device modeling.
6.763 | Applied Superconductivity | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-763-applied-superconductivity-fall-2005 | textbook:Orlando, T. P., and K. A. Delin. Foundations of Applied Superconductivity. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1991. level:Graduate instructors:Terry Orlando term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course provides a phenomenological approach to superconductivity, with emphasis on superconducting electronics. Topics include: electrodynamics of superconductors, London's model, flux quantization, Josephson Junctions, superconducting quantum devices, equivalent circuits, high-speed superconducting electronics, and quantized circuits for quantum computing. The course also provides an overview of type II superconductors, critical magnetic fields, pinning, the critical state model, superconducting materials, and microscopic theory of superconductivity.
6.772 | Compound Semiconductor Devices | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-772-compound-semiconductor-devices-spring-2003 | textbook:Shur, M. S. Physics of Semiconductor Devices. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1990. textbook:Swaminathan, V., and A. T. Macrander. Materials Aspects of GaAs and InP Based Structures. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1991. textbook:Sze, S. M. Physics of Semiconductor Devices. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 1981. textbook:———. Semiconductor Devices, Physics, and Technology. New York, NY: Wiley, 1985. textbook:Sze, S. M., ed. High Speed Semiconductor Devices. New York, NY: Wiley, 1990. textbook:Adachi, Sadao. Physical Properties of III-V Semiconductor Compounds: InP, InAs, GaAs, GaP, InGaAs, and InGaAsP. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1992. textbook:Berger, Lev I. Semiconductor Materials. Boca Raton: CRC Press, 1996. textbook:Madelung, Otfried. Physics of III-V Compounds. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1964. textbook:———. Semiconductors - Basic Data. 2nd rev. ed. Berlin: Springer, 1996. textbook:Swaminathan, V., and A. T. Macrander. Materials Aspects of GaAs and InP Based Structures. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1991. textbook:Hess, K. "Diffusive Transport and Thermionic Emission: Appendix G." In Advanced Theory of Semiconductor Devices. New York, NY: Prentice-Hall, 1988. textbook:Shur, M. S. Physics of Semiconductor Devices. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1990, chapter 2 and section 2.9. textbook:Singh, J. Semiconductor Devices: An Introduction. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1994, chapter 6, Section 6.2. textbook:Sze, S. M. Physics of Semiconductor Device. 2nd. ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 1981. Chapter 5. textbook:———. Semiconductor Devices, Physics, and Technology. New York, NY: Wiley, 1985. Section 5.1. textbook:Yang, E. S. "Thermionic Emission: Appendix A." In Microelectronic Devices. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988. textbook:Coldren, L. A., and S. W. Corzine. Diode Lasers and Photonic Integrated Circuits. New York, NY: Wiley Interscience, 1995. textbook:Roencher, E., and B. Vorge. Optoelectronics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Chang, Shun Lien. Physics of Optoelectronic Devices. New York, NY: John Wiley, 1995. textbook:Bhattacharya, Pallab. Semiconductor Optoelectronic Devices. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1997. textbook:Forchel, A., M. Kamp, Reithmaier, et al. "Photonic Crystals for Optoelectronic Devices." In Physics and Simulation of Optoelectronic Devices IX. Edited by Yasuhiko Arakawa, Peter Blood, and Marek Osinski. textbook:Bergh, A. A. Light Emitting Diodes. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press, 1976. textbook:Gillesen, K., and W. Schairer. Light Emitting Diodes: An Introduction. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1987, textbook:Schubert, E. F. Light Emitting Diodes. Cambidge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2003. textbook:Coldren, L. A., and S. W. Corzine. Diode Lasers and Photonic Integrated Circuits. New York, NY: Wiley, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Clifton Fonstad, Jr. term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course outlines the physics, modeling, application, and technology of compound semiconductors (primarily III-Vs) in electronic, optoelectronic, and photonic devices and integrated circuits. Topics include: properties, preparation, and processing of compound semiconductors; theory and practice of heterojunctions, quantum structures, and pseudomorphic strained layers; metal-semiconductor field effect transistors (MESFETs); heterojunction field effect transistors (HFETs) and bipolar transistors (HBTs); photodiodes, vertical-and in-plane-cavity laser diodes, and other optoelectronic devices.
6.774 | Physics of Microfabrication: Front End Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-774-physics-of-microfabrication-front-end-processing-fall-2004 | textbook:Plummer, James, Michael Deal, and Peter Griffin. Silicon VLSI Technology: Fundamentals, Practice and Modeling. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. textbook:Wolf, Stanley, and Richard Tauber. Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era . 2nd ed. Sunset Beach, CA: Lattice Press, 1999. textbook:Sze, Simon. VLSI Technology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1988. textbook:Campbell, Stephen. The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Vossen, John, and Werner Kern, eds. Thin Film Processes. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1978. textbook:Vossen, John, and Werner Kern. Thin Film Processes. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1991. textbook:Mayer, James W., and Sylvanus S. Lau. Electronic Materials Science: For Integrated Circuits in Si and GaAs. New York, NY: Macmillan, 1990. textbook:Pierret, Robert, and George W. Neudeck. Modular Series on Solid State Devices. Vol. 1-5. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1987, 89, and 90. textbook:Pierret, Robert. Advanced Semiconductor Fundamentals. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Taur, Yuan, and Tak H. Ning. Fundamentals of Modern VLSI Devices. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Judy Hoyt,  L. Rafael Reif<br/>(Contributor) term:Fall 2004 features:Audio lectures description:This course is offered to graduates and focuses on understanding the fundamental principles of the "front-end" processes used in the fabrication of devices for silicon integrated circuits. This includes advanced physical models and practical aspects of major processes, such as oxidation, diffusion, ion implantation, and epitaxy. Other topics covered include: high performance MOS and bipolar devices including ultra-thin gate oxides, implant-damage enhanced diffusion, advanced metrology, and new materials such as Silicon Germanium (SiGe).
6.776 | High Speed Communication Circuits | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-776-high-speed-communication-circuits-spring-2005 | textbook:Lee, Thomas H. The Design of CMOS Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuits. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Razavi, Behzad. RF Microelectronics. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Hae-Seung Lee,  Michael Perrott term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.776 covers circuit level design issues of high speed communication systems, with primary focus being placed on wireless and broadband data link applications. Specific circuit topics include transmission lines, high speed and low noise amplifiers, VCO's, mixers, power amps, high speed digital circuits, and frequency synthesizers. In addition to learning analysis skills for the above items, students will gain a significant amount of experience in simulating RF circuits in SPICE and also building RF circuits within a lab project.
6.777J | Design and Fabrication of Microelectromechanical Devices | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-777j-design-and-fabrication-of-microelectromechanical-devices-spring-2007 | textbook:Senturia, Stephen D. Microsystem Design. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Madou, Marc. Fundamentals of Microfabrication. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 1998. textbook:Kovacs, Gregory T. A. Micromachined Transducers Sourcebook. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1998. textbook:Maluf, Nadim. An Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems Engineering. Boston, MA: Artech House, 1999. textbook:Nathan, Arokia, and Henry Baltes. Microtransducer CAD: Physical and Computational Aspects. New York, NY: Springer, 1999. textbook:Romanowicz, Bartlomiej. Methodology for the Modeling and Simulation of Microsystems. New York, NY: Springer, 1997. textbook:Tabib-Azar, Masood. Microactuators. Norwell, MA: Kluwer Academic, 1997. textbook:Gardner, Julian W. Microsensors: Principles and Applications. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1994. textbook:Ristic, Ljubisa, ed. Sensor Technology and Devices. Boston, MA: Artech House, 1994. textbook:Ballantine, D. S, Jr., et al. Acoustic Wave Sensors: Theory, Design, and Physico-Chemical Applications. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996. textbook:De Los Santos, Hector J. Introduction to Microelectromechanical (MEM) Microwave Systems. Boston, MA: Artech House, 1999. textbook:Gere, James M., and Stephen P. Timoshenko. Mechanics of Materials. 2nd ed. Pacific Grove, CA: Brooks/Cole, 1984. textbook:A more recent edition:  Gere, James, and Barry Goodno. Mechanics of Materials. Florence, KY: Cengage-Engineering, 2008. textbook:Campbell, Stephen A. The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Muller, Richard S., Roger T. Howe, and Stephen D. Senturia, eds. Microsensors. New York, NY: IEEE Press, 1991. textbook:Trimmer, William, ed. Micromechanics and MEMS. New York, NY: Wiley-IEEE Press, 1997. textbook:Senturia, Stephen D. Microsystem Design. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Carol Livermore,  Joel Voldman term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, Images on Flickr description:6.777J / 2.372J is an introduction to microsystem design. Topics covered include: material properties, microfabrication technologies, structural behavior, sensing methods, fluid flow, microscale transport, noise, and amplifiers feedback systems. Student teams design microsystems (sensors, actuators, and sensing/control systems) of a variety of types, (e.g., optical MEMS, bioMEMS, inertial sensors) to meet a set of performance specifications (e.g., sensitivity, signal-to-noise) using a realistic microfabrication process. There is an emphasis on modeling and simulation in the design process. Prior fabrication experience is desirable. The course is worth 4 Engineering Design Points. 
6.780J | Control of Manufacturing Processes (SMA 6303) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-830j-control-of-manufacturing-processes-sma-6303-spring-2008 | textbook:Drain, Davis. "Variance Components and Process Sampling Design." Chapter 3 in Statistical Methods for Industrial Process Control. New York, NY: Chapman & Hall, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:David Hardt,  Duane Boning term:Spring 2008 features:Video lectures, Demonstration - video, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course explores statistical modeling and control in manufacturing processes. Topics include the use of experimental design and response surface modeling to understand manufacturing process physics, as well as defect and parametric yield modeling and optimization. Various forms of process control, including statistical process control, run by run and adaptive control, and real-time feedback control, are covered. Application contexts include semiconductor manufacturing, conventional metal and polymer processing, and emerging micro-nano manufacturing processes.
6.780 | Semiconductor Manufacturing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-780-semiconductor-manufacturing-spring-2003 | textbook:Montgomery, D. C. Introduction to Statistical Quality Control. 4th ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 2000. textbook:Drain, D. Statistical Methods for Industrial Process Control. New york, NY: Chapman and Hall, 1997. textbook:Handbook of Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology. Edited by Y. Nishi and R. Doering. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, 2000. textbook:Drain, D. Handbook of Experimental Methods for Process Improvement. New York, NY: Chapman and Hall, 1997. textbook:Statistical Case Studies for Industrial Process Improvement. Edited by V. Czitrom and P. D. Spagon. ASA-SIAM, 1997. textbook:Statistical Applications in Process Control. Edited by J. B. Keats, and D. C. Montgomery. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, 1996. textbook:Phadke, M. S. Quality Engineering Using Robust Design. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Walker, D. M. H. Yield Simulation for Integrated Circuits. Boston, MA: Kluwer, 1987. textbook:Xiao, Hong. Introduction to Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2001. textbook:Plummer, J. D., M. Deal, and P. B. Griffin. Silicon VLSI Technology -- Fundamentals, Practice and Modeling. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. textbook:Microelectronics Manufacturing Diagnostics Handbook. Edited by A. H. Landzberg. New York, NY: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1993. textbook:Handbook of Silicon Semiconductor Metrology. Edited by A. C. Diebold. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, 2001. textbook:Wolf, S., and R. N. Tauber. Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era: Volume 1 - Process Technology. Sunset Beach, CA: Lattice Press, 1986. textbook:Box, G. E. P., W. G. Hunter, and J. S. Hunter. Statistics for Experimenters. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1978. textbook:Miller, R. G., Jr. Beyond Anova: Basics of Applied Statistics. New York, NY: Chapman and Hall, 1997. textbook:Ross, S. M. Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists. New York, NY: Wiley, 1987. textbook:Spanos, A. Statistical Foundations of Econometric Modeling. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:Gershwin, S. B. Manufacturing Systems Engineering. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. level:Graduate instructors:Duane Boning term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:6.780 covers statistical modeling and the control of semiconductor fabrication processes and plants. Topics covered include: design of experiments, response surface modeling, and process optimization; defect and parametric yield modeling; process/device/circuit yield optimization; monitoring, diagnosis, and feedback control of equipment and processes; and analysis and scheduling of semiconductor manufacturing operations.
6.781J | Submicrometer and Nanometer Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-781j-submicrometer-and-nanometer-technology-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:George Barbastathis,  Henry Smith,  Karl Berggren term:Spring 2006 features:Demonstration - video description:This course surveys techniques to fabricate and analyze submicron and nanometer structures, with applications. Optical and electron microscopy is reviewed. Additional topics that are covered include: surface characterization, preparation, and measurement techniques, resist technology, optical projection, interferometric, X-ray, ion, and electron lithography; Aqueous, ion, and plasma etching techniques; lift-off and electroplating; and ion implantation. Applications in microelectronics, microphotonics, information storage, and nanotechnology will also be explored.AcknowledgementsThe Instructors would like to thank Bob Barsotti, Bryan Cord, and Ben Wunsch for their work on the Atomic Force Microscope video. They would also like to thank Bryan Cord for creating each video.
6.821 | Programming Languages | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-821-programming-languages-fall-2002 | textbook:Abelson, Harold, and Gerald Jay Sussman with Julie Sussman. Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. 2nd ed. MIT Press, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Ernst term:Fall 2002 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:6.821 teaches the principles of functional, imperative, and logic programming languages. Topics covered include: meta-circular interpreters, semantics (operational and denotational), type systems (polymorphism, inference, and abstract types), object oriented programming, modules, and multiprocessing. The course involves substantial programming assignments and problem sets as well as a significant amount of reading. The course uses the Scheme+ programming language for all of its assignments.
6.823 | Computer System Architecture | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-823-computer-system-architecture-fall-2005 | textbook:H&P3: Hennessy, J. L., and D. A. Patterson. Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, 3rd ed. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 2002. textbook:H&P2: Hennessy, J. L., and D. A. Patterson. Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, 2nd ed. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 1995. textbook:P&H: Patterson, D. A., and J. L. Hennessy. Computer Organization and Design: The Hardware/Software Interface, 3rd ed. San Mateo, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Joel Emer,  Krste Asanovic,   Arvind<br/>(Lecturer) term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.823 is a course in the department's &quot;Computer Systems and Architecture&quot; concentration. 6.823 is a study of the evolution of computer architecture and the factors influencing the design of hardware and software elements of computer systems. Topics may include: instruction set design; processor micro-architecture and pipelining; cache and virtual memory organizations; protection and sharing; I/O and interrupts; in-order and out-of-order superscalar architectures; VLIW machines; vector supercomputers; multithreaded architectures; symmetric multiprocessors; and parallel computers.
6.824 | Distributed Computer Systems Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-824-distributed-computer-systems-engineering-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Robert Morris term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers abstractions and implementation techniques for the design of distributed systems. Topics include: server design, network programming, naming, storage systems, security, and fault tolerance. The assigned readings for the course are from current literature. This course is worth 6 Engineering Design Points. 
6.825 | Techniques in Artificial Intelligence (SMA 5504) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-825-techniques-in-artificial-intelligence-sma-5504-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Tomás Lozano-Pérez,  Leslie Kaelbling term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:6.825 is a graduate-level introduction to artificial intelligence. Topics covered include: representation and inference in first-order logic, modern deterministic and decision-theoretic planning techniques, basic supervised learning methods, and Bayesian network inference and learning.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5504 (Techniques in Artificial Intelligence).
6.826 | Principles of Computer Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-826-principles-of-computer-systems-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Butler Lampson,  Martin Rinard term:Spring 2002 features:Lecture notes description:6.826 provides an introduction to the basic principles of computer systems, with emphasis on the use of rigorous techniques as an aid to understanding and building modern computing systems. Particular attention is paid to concurrent and distributed systems. Topics covered include: specification and verification, concurrent algorithms, synchronization, naming, networking, replication techniques (including distributed cache management), and principles and algorithms for achieving reliability.
6.827 | Multithreaded Parallelism: Languages and Compilers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-827-multithreaded-parallelism-languages-and-compilers-fall-2002 | textbook:Nikhil, Rishiyur S., and Arvind. Implicit Parallel Programming in pH. 1st ed. Boston, MA: Morgan-Kaufmann, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Arvind term:Fall 2002 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The topics covered in this course include: Languages and compilers to exploit multithreaded parallelism Implicit parallel programming using functional languages and their extensions Higher-order functions, non-strictness, and polymorphism Explicit parallel programming and nondeterminism The lambda calculus and its variants Term rewriting and operational semantics Compiling multithreaded code for symmetric multiprocessors and clusters Static analysis and compiler optimizationsThis course is worth 4 Engineering Design Points.
6.828 | Operating System Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-828-operating-system-engineering-fall-2012 | level:Graduate instructors:Frans Kaashoek term:Fall 2012 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course studies fundamental design and implementation ideas in the engineering of operating systems. Lectures are based on a study of UNIX and research papers. Topics include virtual memory, threads, context switches, kernels, interrupts, system calls, interprocess communication, coordination, and the interaction between software and hardware. Individual laboratory assignments involve implementation of a small operating system in C, with some x86 assembly.
6.829 | Computer Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-829-computer-networks-fall-2002 | textbook:[Huitema96] Huitema, C. Routing in the Internet. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, January 15, 2000. textbook:[Stewart99] Stewart, J. BGP4 Inter-Domain Routing in the Internet. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, January 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Hari Balakrishnan term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:How does the global network infrastructure work and what are the design principles on which it is based? In what ways are these design principles compromised in practice? How do we make it work better in today's world? How do we ensure that it will work well in the future in the face of rapidly growing scale and heterogeneity? And how should Internet applications be written, so they can obtain the best possible performance both for themselves and for others using the infrastructure? These are some issues that are grappled with in this course. The course will focus on the design, implementation, analysis, and evaluation of large-scale networked systems. Topics&nbsp;include internetworking philosophies, unicast and multicast routing, congestion control, network quality of service, mobile networking, router architectures, network-aware applications, content dissemination systems, network security, and performance issues.&nbsp;Material&nbsp;for the course will be drawn from research papers, industry white papers, and&nbsp;Internet RFCs.
6.830 | Database Systems (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-830-database-systems-fall-2010 | textbook:Hellerstein, Joseph, and Michael Stonebraker. Readings in Database Systems (The Red Book). 4th ed. MIT Press, 2005. textbook:Ramakrishnan, Raghu, and Johannes Gehrke. Database Management Systems. 3rd ed. McGraw-Hill, 2002. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Samuel Madden,  Robert Morris,  Michael Stonebraker, Dr. Carlo Curino term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course relies on primary readings from the database community to introduce graduate students to the foundations of database systems, focusing on basics such as the relational algebra and data model, schema normalization, query optimization, and transactions. It is designed for students who have taken 6.033 (or equivalent); no prior database experience is assumed, though students who have taken an undergraduate course in databases are encouraged to attend.
6.831 | User Interface Design and Implementation (Spring 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-831-user-interface-design-and-implementation-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Robert Miller term:Spring 2011 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:6.831/6.813 examines human-computer interaction in the context of graphical user interfaces. The course covers human capabilities, design principles, prototyping techniques, evaluation techniques, and the implementation of graphical user interfaces. Deliverables include short programming assignments and a semester-long group project. Students taking the graduate version also have readings from current literature and additional assignments.
6.832 | Underactuated Robotics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-832-underactuated-robotics-spring-2009 | textbook:Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 2001. textbook:Slotine, Jean-Jacques E., and Weiping Li. Applied Nonlinear Control. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1991. textbook:Fantoni, Isabelle, and Rogelio Lozano. Non-linear Control for Underactuated Mechanical Systems. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2002. textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri P. Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control. 3rd ed. Vols. I and II. Nashua, NH: Athena Scientific, 2007. textbook:Sutton, Richard S., and Andrew G. Barto. Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998. textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri P., and John N. Tsitsiklis. Neuro-Dynamic Programming. Nashua, NH: Athena Scientific, 1996. textbook:LaValle, Steven M. Planning Algorithms. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Russell Tedrake term:Spring 2009 features:Video lectures, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Robots today move far too conservatively, using control systems that attempt to maintain full control authority at all times. Humans and animals move much more aggressively by routinely executing motions which involve a loss of instantaneous control authority. Controlling nonlinear systems without complete control authority requires methods that can reason about and exploit the natural dynamics of our machines. This course discusses nonlinear dynamics and control of underactuated mechanical systems, with an emphasis on machine learning methods. Topics include nonlinear dynamics of passive robots (walkers, swimmers, flyers), motion planning, partial feedback linearization, energy-shaping control, analytical optimal control, reinforcement learning/approximate optimal control, and the influence of mechanical design on control. Discussions include examples from biology and applications to legged locomotion, compliant manipulation, underwater robots, and flying machines. Acknowledgements Professor Tedrake would like to thank John Roberts for his help with the course and videotaping the lectures.
6.833 | The Human Intelligence Enterprise (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-803-the-human-intelligence-enterprise-spring-2006 | textbook:Larson, Stephen D. "Intrinsic Representation: Bootstrapping Symbols From Experience." In Lecture Notes in Computer Science 3060. New York, NY: Springer, 2004, pp. 202-216. level:Undergraduate instructors:Patrick Henry Winston term:Spring 2006 features:Projects (no examples) description:6.803/6.833 is a course in the department's &quot;Artifical Intelligence and Applications&quot; concentration. This course is offered both to undergraduates (6.803) and graduates (6.833). 6.803/6.833 is designed to help students learn about progress toward the scientific goal of understanding human intelligence from a computational point of view. This course complements 6.034, because 6.803/6.833 focuses on long-standing scientific questions, whereas 6.034 focuses on existing tools for building applications with reasoning and learning capability. The content of 6.803/6.833 is largely based on papers by representative Artificial Intelligence leaders, which serve as the basis for discussion and assignments for the course.
6.833 | The Human Intelligence Enterprise (Spring 2002) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-803-the-human-intelligence-enterprise-spring-2002 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Patrick Henry Winston term:Spring 2002 features:Projects (no examples) description:This course is offered both to undergraduates (6.803) and graduates (6.833) and is designed to help students learn about progress toward the scientific goal of understanding human intelligence from a computational point of view. This course complements 6.034, because it focuses on long-standing scientific questions, whereas 6.034 focuses on existing tools for building applications with reasoning and learning capability.The content of 6.803/6.833 is largely based on papers by representative Artificial Intelligence leaders, which serve as the basis for discussion and assignments for the course.
6.834J | Cognitive Robotics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/aeronautics-and-astronautics/16-412j-cognitive-robotics-spring-2005 | textbook:Dechter, Rina. "Tree Decomposition Methods," and "Constraint Optimization." Chapter 9 and 13 in Constraint Processing. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2003. textbook:Koenig, S., and M. Likhachev. "Incremental A*." In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 14. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002. textbook:Theocharous, Georgios, and Leslie Pack Kaelbling. "Approximate Planning in POMDPS with Macro-Actions." In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 16. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Russell, Stuart, and Peter Norvig. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Prentice Hall, 2002. textbook:Hiller, F., and G. Lieberman. Introduction to Operations Research. 7th ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2002. textbook:Jaakkola, T., S. Singh, and M. Jordan. "Reinforcement Learning Algorithm for Partially Observable Markov Decision Problems." Advances In Neural Information Processing Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:Dietterich, T. G. "Machine Learning for Sequential Data: A Review." In Structural, Syntactic, and Statistical Pattern Recognition; Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Vol. 2396. Edited by T. Caelli. New York, NY: Springer, 2002, pp. 15-30. textbook:Banzhaf, W., P. Nordin, R. E. Keller, and F. D. Francone. Genetic Programming - An Introduction On The Automatic Evolution of Computer Programs and its Applications>. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 1997. textbook:Schwefel, H. P. Evolution and Optimum Seeking. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1996. textbook:Grosz, Barbara, and Sarit Kraus. "The Evolution of SharedPlans." In Foundations and Theories of Rational Agencies. Edited by A. Rao and M. Wooldridge. New York, NY: Springer, 1999, pp. 227-262. textbook:Ghahramani, Z. "Learning Dynamic Bayesian Networks." In Adaptive Processing of Sequences and Data Structures. Edited by C. L. Giles and M. Gori. Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, pp. 168-197. textbook:Russell, Stuart, and Peter Norvig. "Intro to Bayesian networks. Probabilistic inference. PRM primer." and "Temporal Bayesian models. HMMs and DBNs." Chapter 14 and 15 in Artifical Intelligence, A Modern Approach. New York, NY: Prentice Hall, 2002. textbook:Zweig, G., and S. Russell. "Speech Recognition with Dynamic Bayesian Networks." In Proceedings of the AAAI-98. Madison, Wisconsin: AAAI Press, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Brian Williams term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:Cognitive robotics addresses the emerging field of autonomous systems possessing artificial reasoning skills. Successfully-applied algorithms and autonomy models form the basis for study, and provide students an opportunity to design such a system as part of their class project. Theory and application are linked through discussion of real systems such as the Mars Exploration Rover.
6.838 | Algorithms for Computer Animation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-838-algorithms-for-computer-animation-fall-2002 | textbook:Thomas, Frank, and Ollie Jonston. "Our Procedures." Chapter 9 in The Illlusion of Life: Disney Animation. Revised ed. Disney Editions, October 19, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Jovan Popovic term:Fall 2002 features: description:Animation is a compelling and effective form of expression; it engages viewers and makes difficult concepts easier to grasp. Today's animation industry creates films, special effects, and games with stunning visual detail and quality. This graduate class will investigate the algorithms that make these animations possible: keyframing, inverse kinematics, physical simulation, optimization, optimal control, motion capture, and data-driven methods. Our study will also reveal the shortcomings of these sophisticated tools. The students will propose improvements and explore new methods for computer animation in semester-long research projects. The course should appeal to both students with general interest in computer graphics and students interested in new applications of machine learning, robotics, biomechanics, physics, applied mathematics and scientific computing.
6.840J | Theory of Computation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-404j-theory-of-computation-fall-2006 | textbook:Sipser, Michael. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Thomson Course Technology, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Sipser term:Fall 2006 features:Exams (no solutions) description:This graduate level course is more extensive and theoretical treatment of the material in Computability, and Complexity (6.045J / 18.400J). Topics include Automata and Language Theory, Computability Theory, and Complexity Theory.
6.841J | Advanced Complexity Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-405j-advanced-complexity-theory-spring-2016 | level:Graduate instructors:Dana Moshkovitz,  Mohammad Bavarian term:Spring 2016 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:This graduate-level course focuses on current research topics in computational complexity theory. Topics include: Nondeterministic, alternating, probabilistic, and parallel computation models; Boolean circuits; Complexity classes and complete sets; The polynomial-time hierarchy; Interactive proof systems; Relativization; Definitions of randomness; Pseudo-randomness and derandomizations;Interactive proof systems and probabilistically checkable proofs.
6.844 | Computability Theory of and with Scheme | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-844-computability-theory-of-and-with-scheme-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Albert R. Meyer term:Spring 2003 features: description:6.844 is a graduate introduction to programming theory, logic of programming, and computability, with the programming language Scheme used to crystallize computability constructions and as an object of study itself. Topics covered include: programming and computability theory based on a term-rewriting, "substitution" model of computation by Scheme programs with side-effects; computation as algebraic manipulation: Scheme evaluation as algebraic manipulation and term rewriting theory; paradoxes from self-application and introduction to formal programming semantics; undecidability of the Halting Problem for Scheme; properties of recursively enumerable sets, leading to Incompleteness Theorems for Scheme equivalences; logic for program specification and verification; and Hilbert's Tenth Problem.
6.845 | Quantum Complexity Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-845-quantum-complexity-theory-fall-2010 | textbook:Nielsen, Michael, and Issac Chuang. Quantum Computation and Quantum Information. Cambridge University Press, 2011. textbook:Mermin, David. Quantum Computer Science: An Introduction. Cambridge University Press, 2007. textbook:Arora, Sanjeev, and Boaz Barak. Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach. Cambridge University Press, 2009. textbook:Sipser, Michael. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed. Course Technology, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Scott Aaronson term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to quantum computational complexity theory, the study of the fundamental capabilities and limitations of quantum computers. Topics include complexity classes, lower bounds, communication complexity, proofs, advice, and interactive proof systems in the quantum world. The objective is to bring students to the research frontier.
6.849 | Geometric Folding Algorithms: Linkages, Origami, Polyhedra | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-849-geometric-folding-algorithms-linkages-origami-polyhedra-fall-2012 | level:Graduate instructors:Erik Demaine term:Fall 2012 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course focuses on the algorithms for analyzing and designing geometric foldings. Topics include reconfiguration of foldable structures, linkages made from one-dimensional rods connected by hinges, folding two-dimensional paper (origami), and unfolding and folding three-dimensional polyhedra. Applications to architecture, robotics, manufacturing, and biology are also covered in this course. Acknowledgments Thanks to videographers Martin Demaine and Jayson Lynch.
6.851 | Advanced Data Structures | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-851-advanced-data-structures-spring-2012 | level:Graduate instructors:Erik Demaine term:Spring 2012 features:Video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:Data structures play a central role in modern computer science. You interact with data structures even more often than with algorithms (think Google, your mail server, and even your network routers). In addition, data structures are essential building blocks in obtaining efficient algorithms. This course covers major results and current directions of research in data structure. Acknowledgments Thanks to videographers Martin Demaine and Justin Zhang.
6.852J | Distributed Algorithms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-852j-distributed-algorithms-fall-2009 | textbook:[Lynch] =  Lynch, Nancy. Distributed Algorithms. Burlington, MA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1996. textbook:[Attiya and Welch] =  Attiya, Hagit, and Jennifer Welch. Distributed Computing: Fundamentals, Simulations, and Advanced Topics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2004. textbook:[Herlihy and Shavit] =  Herlihy, Maurice, and Nir Shavit. The Art of Multiprocessor Programming. Burlington, MA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2008. textbook:[Guerraoui and Kapalka] =  Guerraoui, Rachid, and Michal Kapalka. Transactional Memory: The Theory. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. textbook:[Dolev] =   Dolev, Shlomi. Self-Stabilization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Kaynar, Disun, Nancy Lynch, Roberto Segala, and Frits Vaandrager. The Theory of Timed I/O Automata. 2nd ed. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. textbook:Mattern, Friedemann. "Virtual Time and Global States of Distributed Systems." In Parallel and Distributed Algorithms: Proceedings of the International Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Algorithms (Chateau de Bonas, Gers, France, October, 1988). Edited by Michel Cosnard, et al. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1989, 215-226. textbook:Mattern, Friedemann. "Virtual Time and Global States of Distributed Systems." In Parallel and Distributed Algorithms: Proceedings of the International Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Algorithms (Chateau de Bonas, Gers, France, October, 1988). Edited by Michel Cosnard, et al. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1989, 215-226. textbook:Herlihy, Maurice, and Nir Shavit. The Art of Multiprocessor Programming. Burlington, MA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2008. textbook:Guerraoui, Rachid, and Michal Kapalka. Transactional Memory: The Theory. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. textbook:Dolev, Shlomi. Self-Stabilization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Attiya, Hagit, and Jennifer Welch. Distributed Computing: Fundamentals, Simulations, and Advanced Topics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2004. textbook:Kaynar, Disun, Nancy Lynch, Roberto Segala, and Frits Vaandrager. The Theory of Timed I/O Automata. 2nd ed. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. level:Graduate instructors:Nancy Lynch term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Distributed algorithms are algorithms designed to run on multiple processors, without tight centralized control. In general, they are harder to design and harder to understand than single-processor sequential algorithms. Distributed algorithms are used in many practical systems, ranging from large computer networks to multiprocessor shared-memory systems. They also have a rich theory, which forms the subject matter for this course.The core of the material will consist of basic distributed algorithms and impossibility results, as covered in Prof. Lynch's book Distributed Algorithms. This will be supplemented by some updated material on topics such as self-stabilization, wait-free computability, and failure detectors, and some new material on scalable shared-memory concurrent programming.
6.854J | Advanced Algorithms (Fall 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-854j-advanced-algorithms-fall-2008 | textbook:Cormen, T.H., C.E. Leiserson, R.L. Rivest, and C. Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Schrijver, A. Theory of Linear and Integer Programming. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1998. textbook:Groetschel, M., L. Lovasz, and A. Schrijver. Geometric Algorithms and Combinatorial Optimization. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993, chapter 3. textbook:Chvatal, V. Linear Programming. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1983, appendix. textbook:Korte, B. H., and J. Vygen. Combinatorial Optimization. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2002, chapter 4. textbook:Roos, C., T. Terlaky, and J.-Ph. Vial. Theory and Algorithms for Linear Optimization: An Interior Point Approach. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1997. textbook:Boyd, Stephen, and Lieven Vandenberghe. Convex Optimization . Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univ. Press, 2005. textbook:Vazirani, V. Approximation Algorithms. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. textbook:Hochbaum, D., ed. Approximation Algorithms for NP-Hard Problems. Boston: PWS Publishing Company, 1996. textbook:de Berg, Mark, O. Cheong, M. van Kreveld, and M. Overmars. Computational Geometry. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2008. textbook:Lov'asz, L. "An Algorithmic Theory of Numbers, Graphs, and Convexity." In CBMS Regional Conference Series in Applied Mathematics (SIAM, 1986). Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1987. textbook:Bach, E., and J. Shallit. Algorithmic Number Theory. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, August 26, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Michel Goemans term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes description:This is a graduate course on the design and analysis of algorithms, covering several advanced topics not studied in typical introductory courses on algorithms. It is especially designed for doctoral students interested in theoretical computer science.
6.854J | Advanced Algorithms (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-854j-advanced-algorithms-fall-2005 | textbook:Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Ahuja, Magnanti, and Orlin. Network Flows. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. textbook:Motwani and Raghavan. Randomized Algorithms. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Borodin, Allan, and Ran El-Yaniv. Online Computation and Competitive Analysis. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Tarjan, Robert. Data Structures and Network Algorithms. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1983. textbook:Berg, Mark de, Marc van Kreveld, Mark Overmars, and Otfried Schwarzkopf. Computational Geometry: Algorithms and Applications. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2000. textbook:Hochbaum, Dorit, ed. Approximation Algorithms for NP-Hard Problems. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing Company, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:David R. Karger term:Fall 2005 features: description:This course is a first-year graduate course in algorithms. Emphasis is placed on fundamental algorithms and advanced methods of algorithmic design, analysis, and implementation. Techniques to be covered include amortization, randomization, fingerprinting, word-level parallelism, bit scaling, dynamic programming, network flow, linear programming, fixed-parameter algorithms, and approximation algorithms. Domains include string algorithms, network optimization, parallel algorithms, computational geometry, online algorithms, external memory, cache, and streaming algorithms, and data structures.
6.855J | Network Optimization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-082j-network-optimization-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:James Orlin term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:15.082J/6.855J/ESD.78J is a graduate subject in the theory and practice of network flows and its extensions. Network flow problems form a subclass of linear programming problems with applications to transportation, logistics, manufacturing, computer science, project management, and finance, as well as a number of other domains. This subject will survey some of the applications of network flows and focus on key special cases of network flow problems including the following: the shortest path problem, the maximum flow problem, the minimum cost flow problem, and the multi-commodity flow problem. We will also consider other extensions of network flow problems.
6.856J | Randomized Algorithms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-856j-randomized-algorithms-fall-2002 | textbook:Motwani, and Raghavan. Randomized Algorithms. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Feller, William. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications.Vol. 1. New York, NY: John Wiley, 1968. level:Graduate instructors:David R. Karger term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course examines how randomization can be used to make algorithms simpler and more efficient via random sampling, random selection of witnesses, symmetry breaking, and Markov chains. Topics covered include: randomized computation; data structures (hash tables, skip lists); graph algorithms (minimum spanning trees, shortest paths, minimum cuts); geometric algorithms (convex hulls, linear programming in fixed or arbitrary dimension); approximate counting; parallel algorithms; online algorithms; derandomization techniques; and tools for probabilistic analysis of algorithms.
6.857 | Network and Computer Security | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-857-network-and-computer-security-spring-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Ronald Rivest term:Spring 2014 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions description:6.857 Network and Computer Security&nbsp;is an upper-level undergraduate, first-year graduate course on network and computer security. It fits within the Computer Systems and Architecture Engineering concentration.
6.858 | Computer Systems Security | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-858-computer-systems-security-fall-2014 | textbook:Zalewski, Michal. Chapters 9–13 in The Tangled Web: A Guide to Securing Modern Web Applications. No Starch Press, 2011. level:Graduate instructors:Nickolai Zeldovich term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Exams and solutions description:6.858 Computer Systems Security is a class about the design and implementation of secure computer systems. Lectures cover threat models, attacks that compromise security, and techniques for achieving security, based on recent research papers. Topics include operating system (OS) security, capabilities, information flow control, language security, network protocols, hardware security, and security in web applications.
6.859J | Integer Programming and Combinatorial Optimization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-083j-integer-programming-and-combinatorial-optimization-fall-2009 | textbook:Chapter assignments are from the course textbook:  Bertsimas, Dimitris, and Robert Weismantel. Optimization over Integers. Belmont, MA: Dynamic Ideas, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Dimitris Bertsimas,  Andreas Schulz term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The course is a comprehensive introduction to the theory, algorithms and applications of integer optimization and is organized in four parts: formulations and relaxations, algebra and geometry of integer optimization, algorithms for integer optimization, and extensions of integer optimization.
6.863J | Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-863j-natural-language-and-the-computer-representation-of-knowledge-spring-2003 | textbook:The page numbers below refer to readings in the course textbook: Jurafsky, and Martin. Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Robert Berwick term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:6.863 is a laboratory-oriented course on the theory and practice of building computer systems for human language processing, with an emphasis on the linguistic, cognitive, and engineering foundations for understanding their design.
6.864 | Advanced Natural Language Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-864-advanced-natural-language-processing-fall-2005 | textbook:Jurafsky, David, and James H. Martin. Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. textbook:Manning, Christopher D., and Hinrich Schütze. Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Collins,  Regina Barzilay term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course is a graduate introduction to natural language processing - the study of human language from a computational perspective. It covers syntactic, semantic and discourse processing models, emphasizing machine learning or corpus-based methods and algorithms. It also covers applications of these methods and models in syntactic parsing, information extraction, statistical machine translation, dialogue systems, and summarization. The subject qualifies as an Artificial Intelligence and Applications concentration subject.
6.866 | Machine Vision (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-801-machine-vision-fall-2004 | textbook:Horn, Berthold K. P. Robot Vision. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press/McGraw-Hill, March 1986. level:Undergraduate instructors:Berthold Horn term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Exams and solutions description:Machine Vision provides an intensive introduction to the process of generating a symbolic description of an environment from an image. Lectures describe the physics of image formation, motion vision, and recovering shapes from shading. Binary image processing and filtering are presented as preprocessing steps. Further topics include photogrammetry, object representation alignment, analog VLSI and computational vision. Applications to robotics and intelligent machine interaction are discussed.
6.867 | Machine Learning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-867-machine-learning-fall-2006 | textbook:Cristianini, Nello, and John Shawe-Taylor. An Introduction to Support Vector Machines and Other Kernel-based Learning Methods. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Boyd, Stephen, and Lieven Vandenberghe. Convex Optimization. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Heckerman, David. "A Tutorial on Learning with Bayesian Networks." In Learning in Graphical Models by Michael I. Jordan. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998. textbook:Bishop, Christopher. Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Duda, Richard, Peter Hart, and David Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2000. textbook:Hastie, T., R. Tibshirani, and J. H. Friedman. The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference and Prediction. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:MacKay, David. Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2003. textbook:Mitchell, Tom. Machine Learning. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1997. textbook:Cover, Thomas M., and Joy A. Thomas. Elements of Information Theory. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1991. level:Graduate instructors:Rohit Singh<br/>(Teaching Assistant),  Tommi Jaakkola,  Ali Mohammad<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:6.867 is an introductory course on machine learning which gives an overview of many concepts, techniques, and algorithms in machine learning, beginning with topics such as classification and linear regression and ending up with more recent topics such as boosting, support vector machines, hidden Markov models, and Bayesian networks. The course will give the student the basic ideas and intuition behind modern machine learning methods as well as a bit more formal understanding of how, why, and when they work. The underlying theme in the course is statistical inference as it provides the foundation for most of the methods covered. 
6.868J | The Society of Mind | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-868j-the-society-of-mind-fall-2011 | textbook:[EM] =  Minsky, Marvin. The Emotion Machine: Commonsense Thinking, Artificial Intelligence, and the Future of the Human Mind. Simon & Schuster, 2007. textbook:———. Society of the Mind. Simon & Schuster, 1988. textbook:Warburton, D. M., ed. "Pleasure systems in the brain." In Pleasure: The Politics and The Reality. John Wiley & Sons, 1994, pp. 5–14 + refs. textbook:Sagan, Carl. "A high level overview of minds." Chapter 11 in Cosmos. Random House, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Marvin Minsky term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to the theory that tries to explain how minds are made from collections of simpler processes. It treats such aspects of thinking as vision, language, learning, reasoning, memory, consciousness, ideals, emotions, and personality. It incorporates ideas from psychology, artificial intelligence, and computer science to resolve theoretical issues such as wholes vs. parts, structural vs. functional descriptions, declarative vs. procedural representations, symbolic vs. connectionist models, and logical vs. common-sense theories of learning.
6.871 | Knowledge-Based Applications Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-871-knowledge-based-applications-systems-spring-2005 | textbook:Korf, R. E. "Search: A Survey of Recent Results." In Exploring Artificial Intelligence. Edited by H. E. Shrobe. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1988, pp. 197-237. textbook:Slagel, J. R. "A Heuristic Program that Solves Symbolic Integration Problems in Freshman Calculus." In Computers and Thought. E.A Feigenbaum, J. Feldman.Cambridge, MA: AAAI Press, 1995, pp. 191-203. textbook:MacGregor, R. "The Evolving Technology of Classification-based Knowledge Representation Systems." In Principles of Semantic Networks. Edited by J. Sowa. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1991, pp. 385-400. textbook:Brachman, R., et. al. "Living with Classic: When and how to use a KL-ONE like Language." In Principles of Semantic Networks. Edited by J. Sowa. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1991, pp. 401-456. textbook:Minsky, M. "A Framework for Representing Knowledge." In Readings in Knowledge Representation. Edited by R. Brachman, and H. Levesque. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, pp. 246-262. textbook:Pauker, S. G., et. al. "Towards the Simulation of Clinical Cognition. Taking a Present Illness by Computer." Chapter 6 in Readings in Medical Artificial Intelligence. Edited by W. Clancey, and E. Shortliffe. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1984. textbook:Miller, et al. "Internist-1, An Experimental Computer-Based Diagnostic Consultant for General Internal Medicine." In Readings in Medical Artificial Intelligence. Edited by W. Clancey, and E. Shortliffe. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1984, pp. 190-209. textbook:Hayes, P. "The Logic of Frames." In Readings in Knowledge Representation. Edited by R. Brachman, and H. Levesque. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, pp. 287-296. textbook:Shubert, L. "Semantic Nets are in the Eye of the Beholder." In Principles of Semantic Networks. Edited by J. Sowa. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1991, pp. 95-107. textbook:Patil, R. S., P. Szolovits, and W. B. Schwartz. "Causal Understanding of Patient Illness in Medical Diagnosis." In Readings in Medical Artificial Intelligence. Edited by W. Clancey, and E. Shortliffe. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1984, pp. 229-360. textbook:Patil, R. S. "Artificial Intelligence Techniques for Diagnostic Reasoning." Chapter 9 in Exploring Artificial Intelligence. Edited by H. E. Shrobe. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1988. textbook:Davis, R., and W. Hamscher. "Model-Based Reasoning: Troubleshooting." Chapter 8 in Exploring Artificial Intelligence. Edited by H. E. Shrobe. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1988. textbook:Kolodner, J. L., and D. B. Leake. "A Tutorial Introduction to Case-Based Reasoning." In Case-Based Reasoning: Experiences, Lessons, and Future Directions. Edited by D. B. Leake. Cambridge: MIT Press, 1996, pp. 31-65. textbook:Fox, M. S. "ISIS: A Retrospective." In Intelligent Scheduling. Edited by M. Zweben and M. S. Fox. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1994, pp. 3-28. textbook:Forbus, K. D. "Qualitative Physics: Past, Present and Future." Chapter 7 in Exploring Artificial Intelligence. Edited by H. E. Shrobe. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1988. level:Graduate instructors:Randall Davis term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course covers the development of programs containing a significant amount of knowledge about their application domain. The course includes a brief review of relevant AI techniques; case studies from a number of application domains, chosen to illustrate principles of system development; a discussion of technical issues encountered in building a system, including selection of knowledge representation, knowledge acquisition, etc.; and a discussion of current and future research. The course also provides hands-on experience in building an expert system (term project).
6.872 | Biomedical Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-950j-biomedical-computing-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Peter Szolovits,  Gil Alterovitz term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Analyzes computational needs of clinical medicine reviews systems and approaches that have been used to support those needs, and the relationship between clinical data and gene and protein measurements. Topics: the nature of clinical data; architecture and design of healthcare information systems; privacy and security issues; medical expertsystems; introduction to bioinformatics. Case studies and guest lectures describe contemporary systems and research projects. Term project using large clinical and genomic data sets integrates classroom topics.
6.872J | Medical Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-950j-medical-computing-spring-2003 | textbook:The following text is required for the course and is referenced in the calendar of readings listed in the table below.  Shortliffe, E. H., L. E. Perreault, G. Wiederhold, and L. M. Fagan. Medical Informatics: Computer Applications in Health Care and Biomedicine . 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane,  Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Peter Szolovits term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:The focus of the course is on medical science and practice in the age of automation and the genome, both present and future. It ncludes an analysis of the computational needs of clinical medicine, a review systems and approaches that have been used to support those needs, and an examination of new technologies.
6.873J | Medical Decision Support (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-951j-medical-decision-support-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Staal Vinterbo term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course presents the main concepts of decision analysis, artificial intelligence, and predictive model construction and evaluation in the specific context of medical applications. The advantages and disadvantages of using these methods in real-world systems&nbsp;are emphasized, while students gain hands-on experience with application specific methods. The technical focus of the course includes decision analysis, knowledge-based systems (qualitative and quantitative), learning systems (including logistic regression, classification trees, neural networks), and techniques to evaluate the performance of such systems.
6.873J | Medical Decision Support (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-951j-medical-decision-support-spring-2003 | textbook:Hastie, T., R. Tibshirani, and J. H. Friedman. The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction. (Springer Series in Statistics.) New York, NY: Springer Verlag, July 30, 2003. textbook:Duda, Richard O., Peter E. Hart, and David G. Stork. Pattern Classification. 2nd ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, October 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Kohane,  Lucila Ohno-Machado,  Peter Szolovits,  Staal Vinterbo term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course presents the main concepts of decision analysis, artificial intelligence and predictive model construction and evaluation in the specific context of medical applications. It emphasizes the advantages and disadvantages of using these methods in real-world systems and provides hands-on experience. Its technical focus is on decision support, knowledge-based systems (qualitative and quantitative), learning systems (including logistic regression, classification trees, neural networks, rough sets), and techniques to evaluate the performance of such systems. It reviews computer-based diagnosis, planning and monitoring of therapeutic interventions. It also discusses implemented medical applications and the software tools used in their construction. Students produce a final project using the machine learning methods learned in the course, based on actual clinical data.LecturersProf. Stephan DreiseitlProf. Ju Jan KimProf. Bill LongProf. Marco RamoniProf. Fred ResnicProf. David Wypij
6.874J | Computational Functional Genomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-90j-computational-functional-genomics-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:David Gifford,  Tommi Jaakkola term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:The course focuses on casting contemporary problems in systems biology and functional genomics in computational terms and providing appropriate tools and methods to solve them. Topics include genome structure and function, transcriptional regulation, and stem cell biology in particular; measurement technologies such as microarrays (expression, protein-DNA interactions, chromatin structure); statistical data analysis, predictive and causal inference, and experiment design. The emphasis is on coupling problem structures (biological questions) with appropriate computational approaches.
6.874J | Foundations of Computational and Systems Biology (Spring 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-91j-foundations-of-computational-and-systems-biology-spring-2014 | textbook:This textbook is recommended for the course:  Zvelebil, Marketa J., and Jeremy O. Baum. Understanding Bioinformatics. Garland Science, 2007. textbook:Broman, Karl W., and Saunak Sen. "Single–QTL Analysis." Chapter 4 in A Guide to QTL Mapping with R/qtl. Springer, 2009. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Gifford,  Ernest Fraenkel term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to computational biology emphasizing the fundamentals of nucleic acid and protein sequence and structural analysis; it also includes an introduction to the analysis of complex biological systems. Topics covered in the course include principles and methods used for sequence alignment, motif finding, structural modeling, structure prediction and network modeling, as well as currently emerging research areas.
6.875 | Cryptography and Cryptanalysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-875-cryptography-and-cryptanalysis-spring-2005 | textbook:Goldreich, O. Foundations of Cryptography: Basic Tools. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2001. textbook:Naor, M. "Bit Commitment Using Pseudorandomness." In Lecture Notes on Computer Science. Vol. 435. Proceedings of the 9th Annual International Cryptology Conference on Advances in Cryptology. London, UK: Springer-Verlag, 1989, pp. 128-136. textbook:Merkle, R. C. "A Certified Digital Signature." In Lecture Notes on Computer Science. Vol. 435. Proceedings of the 9th Annual International Cryptology Conference on Advances in Cryptology. London, UK: Springer-Verlag, 1989, pp. 218-238. textbook:Micali, S., M. Rabin, and S. Vadhan. "Verifiable Random Functions." In Proceedings of 40th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society, 1999, pp. 120-130. textbook:Cramer, R., and V. Shoup. "A Practical Public Key Cryptosystem Provably Secure against Adaptive Chosen Ciphertext Attack." In Lecture Notes on Computer Science. Vol. 839. Proceedings of the 18th Annual International Cryptology Conference on Advances in Cryptology. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1998, pp. 13-25. level:Graduate instructors: term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course features a rigorous introduction to modern cryptography, with an emphasis on the fundamental cryptographic primitives of public-key encryption, digital signatures, pseudo-random number generation, and basic protocols and their computational complexity requirements.
6.876J | Advanced Topics in Cryptography | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-876j-advanced-topics-in-cryptography-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors: term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:The topics covered in this course include interactive proofs, zero-knowledge proofs, zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge, non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs, secure protocols, two-party secure computation, multiparty secure computation, and chosen-ciphertext security.
6.877J | Computational Evolutionary Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-877j-computational-evolutionary-biology-fall-2005 | textbook:Rice, Sean. Evolutionary Theory: Conceptual and Mathematical Foundations. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer, 2004. textbook:Hall, Barry. Phylogenetic Trees Made Easy. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Robert Berwick term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:Why has it been easier to develop a vaccine to eliminate polio than to control influenza or AIDS? Has there been natural selection for a 'language gene'? Why are there no animals with wheels? When does 'maximizing fitness' lead to evolutionary extinction? How are sex and parasites related? Why don't snakes eat grass? Why don't we have eyes in the back of our heads? How does modern genomics illustrate and challenge the field? This course analyzes evolution from a computational, modeling, and engineering perspective. The course has extensive hands-on laboratory exercises in model-building and analyzing evolutionary data.
6.878 | Computational Biology (Fall 2015) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-047-computational-biology-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Manolis Kellis term:Fall 2015 features:Online textbooks, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers the algorithmic and machine learning foundations of computational biology combining theory with practice. We cover both foundational topics in computational biology, and current research frontiers. We study fundamental techniques, recent advances in the field, and work directly with current large-scale biological datasets.
6.881 | Computational Personal Genomics: Making Sense of Complete Genomes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-881-computational-personal-genomics-making-sense-of-complete-genomes-spring-2016 | level:Graduate instructors:Manolis Kellis term:Spring 2016 features: description:With the growing availability and lowering costs of genotyping and personal genome sequencing,the focus has shifted from the ability to obtain the sequence to the ability to make sense ofthe resulting information. This course is aimed at exploring the computational challengesassociated with interpreting how sequence differences between individuals lead to phenotypicdifferences in gene expression, disease predisposition, or response to treatment.
6.881 | Representation and Modeling for Image Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-881-representation-and-modeling-for-image-analysis-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Polina Golland term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:Most algorithms in computer vision and image analysis can be understood in terms of two important components: a representation and a modeling/estimation algorithm. The representation defines what information is important about the objects and is used to describe them. The modeling techniques extract the information from images to instantiate the representation for the particular objects present in the scene. In this seminar, we will discuss popular representations (such as contours, level sets, deformation fields) and useful methods that allow us to extract and manipulate image information, including manifold fitting, markov random fields, expectation maximization, clustering and others. For each concept -- a new representation or an estimation algorithm -- a lecture on the mathematical foundations of the concept will be followed by a discussion of two or three relevant research papers in computer vision, medical and biological imaging, that use the concept in different ways. We will aim to understand the fundamental techniques and to recognize situations in which these techniques promise to improve the quality of the analysis.
6.883 | Pervasive Human Centric Computing (SMA 5508) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-883-pervasive-human-centric-computing-sma-5508-spring-2006 | textbook:Pilgrim, Mark. Dive Into Python®. Berkeley, CA: Apress, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Larry Rudolph term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:This course is broad, covering a wide range of topics that have to do with the post-pc era of computing. It is a hands-on project course that also includes some foundational subjects. Students will program iPAQ handheld computers, cell phones (series 60 phones), speech processing, vision, Cricket location systems, GPS, and more. Most of the programming will be using Python&reg;, but Python&reg; can be learned and mastered during the course.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5508 (Pervasive Computing).
6.883 | Program Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-883-program-analysis-fall-2005 | textbook:Jones, Neil D., and Flemming Nielson. "Abstract Interpretation: A Semantics-based Tool for Program Analysis." In Handbook of Logic in Computer Science. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1995, pp. 527-629. textbook:Damas, Luis, and Robin Milner. "Principal Type-schemes for Functional Programs." In Proc. of the 9th ACM Symp. on POPL. Albuquerque, Mexico, 1982, pp. 207-212. textbook:Reynolds, John C. "Introduction to Part II, Polymorphic Lambda Calculus." In Logical Foundations of Functional Programming. Edited by Gérard Huet. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1990, pp. 77-86. textbook:O'Callahan, Robert, and Daniel Jackson. "Lackwit: A Program Understanding Tool based on Type Inference." ICSE. Boston, MA: 1997, pp. 338-348. textbook:Steensgaard, Bjarne. "Points-to Analysis in Almost Linear Time." In Proc. of the 23rd ACM Symp. on POPL. St. Petersburg Beach, Florida, 1995, pp. 32-41. textbook:———. "Points-to Analysis by Type Inference of Programs with Structures and Unions." In Proc. of 6th Int. Conf. on Compiler Construction. 1996, pp. 136-150. textbook:Visser, William, SeungJoon Park, and John Penix. "Using Predicate Abstraction to Reduce Object-oriented Programs for Model Checking." In Proc. of the Third Workshop on Formal Methods in Software Practice. Portland, Oregon, 2000, pp. 3-182. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Ernst term:Fall 2005 features:Projects and examples description:6.883 is a graduate seminar that investigates a variety of program analysis techniques that address software engineering tasks. Static analysis topics include abstract interpretation (dataflow), type systems, model checking, decision procedures (SAT, BDDs), theorem-proving. Dynamic analysis topics include testing, fault isolation (debugging), model inference, and visualization. While the course focuses on the design and implementation of programming tools, the material will be useful to anyone who wishes to improve his or her programming or understand the state of the art. Students are expected to read classic and current technical papers, actively participate in class discussion, perform small exercises that provide experience with a variety of tools, and complete a team research project.
6.884 | Complex Digital Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-884-complex-digital-systems-spring-2005 | textbook:Palnitkar, Samir. Verilog HDL: A Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Smith, Douglas. HDL Chip Design. Madison, AL: Doone Publishing, 2001. textbook:Weste, Neil, and Kamran Eshraghian. Principles of CMOS VLSI Design: A Systems Perspective. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 1994. textbook:Smith, Michael. Application-Specific Integrated Circuits. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley, 1997. textbook:Rabaey, Jan, Anantha Chandrakasan, and Borivoje Nikolic. Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. textbook:Sutherland, Ivan, Robert Sproull, and David Harris. Logical Effort: Designing Fast CMOS Circuits. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 1999. textbook:Sweetman, Dominic. See MIPS Run. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufman, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Chris Terman<br/>(Contributor),  Krste Asanovic,   Arvind term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course is offered to graduates and is a project-oriented course to teach new methodologies for designing multi-million-gate CMOS VLSI chips using high-level synthesis tools in conjunction with standard commercial EDA tools. The emphasis is on modular and robust designs, reusable modules, correctness by construction, architectural exploration, and meeting the area, timing, and power constraints within standard cell and FPGA frameworks.
6.890 | Algorithmic Lower Bounds: Fun with Hardness Proofs | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-890-algorithmic-lower-bounds-fun-with-hardness-proofs-fall-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Erik Demaine term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:6.890 Algorithmic Lower Bounds: Fun with Hardness Proofs is a class taking a practical approach to proving problems can't be solved efficiently (in polynomial time and assuming standard complexity-theoretic assumptions like P&nbsp;&ne;&nbsp;NP). The class focuses on reductions and techniques for proving problems are computationally hard for a variety of complexity classes. Along the way, the class will create many interesting gadgets, learn many hardness proof styles, explore the connection between games and computation, survey several important problems and complexity classes, and crush hopes and dreams (for fast optimal solutions).
6.892 | Computational Models of Discourse | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-892-computational-models-of-discourse-spring-2004 | textbook:Grosz, Barbara J., Martha E. Pollack, and Candace L. Sidner. "Discourse." In Foundations of Cognitive Science. Edited by M. L. Posner. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989, pp. 437-467. textbook:Kintsch, Walter. The representation of meaning in memory. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1974. textbook:Halliday, Michael, and Ruqaiya Hasan. Cohesion in English. London, UK: Longman Publishing Group, 1976. textbook:Keller, Andrew. "Discourse in Computational Linguistics and Artificial Intelligence." In Speech and Language Processing. Edited by Daniel Jurafsky, and James Martin. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000, pp. 671-684. textbook:Levelt, Willem. Speaking: From Intentions to Articulation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Reichnbach, Hans.The Elements of Symbolic Logic. New York, NY: Macmillan, 1947. textbook:Levinson, S. Pragmatics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1983. textbook:Austin, J. L. How to do Things with Words. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1962. textbook:Searle, J. R. Expression and Meaning: Studies in the theory of Speech Acts. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1979. level:Graduate instructors:Regina Barzilay term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is a graduate level introduction to automatic discourse processing. The emphasis will be on methods and models that have applicability to natural language and speech processing.The class will cover the following topics: discourse structure, models of coherence and cohesion, plan recognition algorithms, and text segmentation. We will study symbolic as well as machine learning methods for discourse analysis. We will also discuss the use of these methods in a variety of applications ranging from dialogue systems to automatic essay writing.This subject qualifies as an Artificial Intelligence and Applications concentration subject.
6.895 | Essential Coding Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-895-essential-coding-theory-fall-2004 | textbook:Blahut, R. E. Theory and Practice of Error-Control Codes. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1983. textbook:MacWilliams, F. J., and N. J. A. Sloane. The Theory of Error Correcting Codes. Amsterdam, Netherlands: North-Holland, 1978. textbook:Van Lint, J. H. Introduction to Coding Theory. 3rd ed. Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Madhu Sudan term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course introduces the theory of error-correcting codes to computer scientists. This theory, dating back to the works of Shannon and Hamming from the late 40's, overflows with theorems, techniques, and notions of interest to theoretical computer scientists. The course will focus on results of asymptotic and algorithmic significance. Principal topics include:  Construction and existence results for error-correcting codes. Limitations on the combinatorial performance of error-correcting codes. Decoding algorithms. Applications in computer science. 
6.895 | Theory of Parallel Systems (SMA 5509) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-895-theory-of-parallel-systems-sma-5509-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bradley Kuszmaul,  Charles Leiserson,  Hsu Wen Jing,  Michael Bender term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:6.895&nbsp;covers theoretical foundations of general-purpose parallel computing systems, from languages to architecture. The focus is on the algorithmic underpinnings of parallel systems. The topics for the class will vary depending on student interest, but will likely include multithreading, synchronization, race detection, load balancing, memory consistency, routing networks, message-routing algorithms, and VLSI layout theory. The class will emphasize randomized algorithms and probabilistic analysis, including high-probability arguments.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5509 (Theory of Parallel Systems).
6.896 | Theory of Parallel Hardware (SMA 5511) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-896-theory-of-parallel-hardware-sma-5511-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bradley Kuszmaul,  Charles Leiserson,  Michael Bender term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:6.896&nbsp;covers mathematical foundations of parallel hardware, from computer arithmetic to physical design, focusing on algorithmic underpinnings. Topics covered include: arithmetic circuits, parallel prefix, systolic arrays, retiming, clocking methodologies, boolean logic, sorting networks, interconnection networks, hypercubic networks, P-completeness, VLSI layout theory, reconfigurable wiring, fat-trees, and area-time complexity.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5511 (Theory of Parallel Hardware).
6.897 | Selected Topics in Cryptography | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-897-selected-topics-in-cryptography-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Ran Canetti term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course covers a number of advanced "selected topics" in the field of cryptography. The first part of the course tackles the foundational question of how to define security of cryptographic protocols in a way that is appropriate for modern computer networks, and how to construct protocols that satisfy these security definitions. For this purpose, the framework of "universally composable security" is studied and used. The second part of the course concentrates on the many challenges involved in building secure electronic voting systems, from both theoretical and practical points of view. In the third part, an introduction to cryptographic constructions based on bilinear pairings is given.
6.931 | Development of Inventions and Creative Ideas | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-931-development-of-inventions-and-creative-ideas-spring-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Dedric Carter, Dr. Robert Rines term:Spring 2008 features:Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course examines the role of the engineer as patent expert and as technical witness in court and patent interference and related proceedings. It discusses the rights and obligations of engineers in connection with educational institutions, government, and large and small businesses. It compares various manners of transplanting inventions into business operations, including development of New England and other U.S. electronics and biotechnology industries and their different types of institutions. The course also considers American systems of incentive to creativity apart from the patent laws in the atomic energy and space fields.AcknowledgmentThe instructors would like to thank Joanne Rines and Elijah Ercolino for their efforts in preparing this course.
6.933J | The Structure of Engineering Revolutions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-933j-the-structure-of-engineering-revolutions-fall-2001 | textbook:Latour, Bruno. Science in Action: How to Follow Scientists and Engineers Through Society. Reprint ed. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, October 1988. textbook:MacKenzie, Donald. Inventing Accuracy: A Historical Sociology of Nuclear Missile Guidance (Inside Technology). Reprint ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, January 29, 1993. textbook:Christensen, Clayton M. The Innovator's Dilemma: The Revolutionary National Bestseller That Changed The Way We Do Business. 1st ed. New York, NY: HarperBusiness, May 2, 2000. textbook:Tufte, Edward. Visual Explanations: Images and Quantities, Evidence and Narrative. Cheshire, CT: Graphics Press, February 1997. textbook:Tufte, Edward. Visual & Statistical Thinking: Displays of Evidence for Decision Making. Cheshire, CT: Graphics Press, April 1997. level:Graduate instructors:David Mindell term:Fall 2001 features:Projects and examples description:6.933J / STS.420J&#160;provides an integrated approach to engineering practice in the real world. Students of 6.933J / STS.420J&#160;research the life cycle of a major engineering project, new technology, or startup company from multiple perspectives: technical, economic, political, and cultural.&#160;Research involves interviewing inventors, reading laboratory notebooks, evaluating patents, and looking over the shoulders of engineers as they developed today's technologies. This subject is for students who recognize that technical proficiency alone is only part of the formula for success in technology.
6.938 | Engineering Risk-Benefit Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-72-engineering-risk-benefit-analysis-spring-2007 | textbook:Hoyland, Arnljot, and Rausand, Marvin. System Reliability Theory. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Interscience, 1994. textbook:Clemen, Robert T. Making Hard Decisions. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Duxbury Press, 1997. textbook:Thuesen, G. J., and Fabrycky, W. J. Engineering Economy. 9th ed. Englewood Cliff, NJ: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 2000. textbook:Ang, Alfredo H.-S., and Tang, W. H. Probability Concepts in Engineering Planning and Design, Basic Principles. Vol. 1. New York, NY: Wiley, 1975. level:Graduate instructors:George Apostolakis term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes description:ERBA (ESD.72) emphasizes three methodologies - reliability and probabilistic risk assessment (RPRA), decision analysis (DA), and cost-benefit analysis (CBA). In this class, the issues of interest are: the risks associated with large engineering projects such as nuclear power reactors, the International Space Station, and critical infrastructures; the development of new products; the design of processes and operations with environmental externalities; and infrastructure renewal projects.
6.945 | Adventures in Advanced Symbolic Programming | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-945-adventures-in-advanced-symbolic-programming-spring-2009 | textbook:Abelson, Harold, Gerald Jay Sussman, and Julie Sussman. Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:Suppes, Patrick. Introduction to Logic. Mineola, NY: Dover Publications, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Gerald Sussman term:Spring 2009 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers concepts and techniques for the design and implementation of large software systems that can be adapted to uses not anticipated by the designer. Applications include compilers, computer-algebra systems, deductive systems, and some artificial intelligence applications. Topics include combinators, generic operations, pattern matching, pattern-directed invocation, rule systems, backtracking, dependencies, indeterminacy, memoization, constraint propagation, and incremental refinement. Substantial weekly programming assignments are an integral part of the subject.There will be extensive programming assignments, using MIT/GNU Scheme. Students should have significant programming experience in Scheme, Common Lisp, Haskell, CAML or some other "functional" language.
6.946J | Classical Mechanics: A Computational Approach | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-620j-classical-mechanics-a-computational-approach-fall-2008 | textbook:Sussman, Gerald Jay, and Jack Wisdom. Structure and Interpretation of Classical Mechanics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Gerald Sussman,  Jack Wisdom term:Fall 2008 features: description:We will study the fundamental principles of classical mechanics, with a modern emphasis on the qualitative structure of phase space. We will use computational ideas to formulate the principles of mechanics precisely. Expression in a computational framework encourages clear thinking and active exploration.We will consider the following topics: the Lagrangian formulation; action, variational principles, and equations of motion; Hamilton's principle; conserved quantities; rigid bodies and tops; Hamiltonian formulation and canonical equations; surfaces of section; chaos; canonical transformations and generating functions; Liouville's theorem and Poincar&eacute; integral invariants; Poincar&eacute;-Birkhoff and KAM theorems; invariant curves and cantori; nonlinear resonances; resonance overlap and transition to chaos; properties of chaotic motion.Ideas will be illustrated and supported with physical examples. We will make extensive use of computing to capture methods, for simulation, and for symbolic analysis.
6.971 | Biomedical Devices Design Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-996-biomedical-devices-design-laboratory-fall-2007 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Hongshen Ma term:Fall 2007 features:Lecture notes description:This course provides intensive coverage of the theory and practice of electromechanical instrument design with application to biomedical devices. Students will work with MGH doctors to develop new medical products from concept to prototype development and testing. Lectures will present techniques for designing electronic circuits as part of complete sensor systems. Topics covered include: basic electronics circuits, principles of accuracy, op amp circuits, analog signal conditioning, power supplies, microprocessors, wireless communications, sensors, and sensor interface circuits. Labs will cover practical printed circuit board (PCB) design including component selection, PCB layout, assembly, and planning and budgeting for large projects. Problem sets and labs in the first six weeks are in support of the project. Major team-based design, build, and test project in the last six weeks. Student teams will be composed of both electrical engineering and mechanical engineering students.
6.972 | Algebraic Techniques and Semidefinite Optimization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-972-algebraic-techniques-and-semidefinite-optimization-spring-2006 | textbook:Cox, D. A., John B. Little, and Donal O'Shea. Ideals, Varieties, and Algorithms: An Introduction to Computational Algebraic Geometry and Commutative Algebra. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1997. textbook:de Klerk, Etienne. Aspects of Semidefinite Programming: Interior Point Algorithms and Selected Applications. Boston, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2002. textbook:Mishra, Bhubaneswar. Algorithmic Algebra. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:Sturmfels, Bernd. Solving Systems of Polynomial Equations. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 2002. textbook:Wolkowicz, Henry, Romesh Saigal, and Lieven Vandenberghe, eds. Handbook of Semidefinite Programming. Boston, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2000. textbook:Yap, Chee-Keng. Fundamental Problems of Algorithmic Algebra. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Pablo Parrilo term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This research-oriented course will focus on algebraic and computational techniques for optimization problems involving polynomial equations and inequalities with particular emphasis on the connections with semidefinite optimization. The course will develop in a parallel fashion several algebraic and numerical approaches to polynomial systems, with a view towards methods that simultaneously incorporate both elements. We will study both the complex and real cases, developing techniques of general applicability, and stressing convexity-based ideas, complexity results, and efficient implementations. Although we will use examples from several engineering areas, particular emphasis will be given to those arising from systems and control applications.
6.973 | Communication System Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-973-communication-system-design-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Vladimir Stojanovic term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course presents a top-down approach to communications system design. The course will cover communication theory, algorithms and implementation architectures for essential blocks in modern physical-layer communication systems (coders and decoders, filters, multi-tone modulation, synchronization sub-systems). The course is hands-on, with a project component serving as a vehicle for study of different communication techniques, architectures and implementations. This year, the project is focused on WLAN transceivers. At the end of the course, students will have gone through the complete WLAN System-On-a-Chip design process, from communication theory, through algorithm and architecture all the way to the synthesized standard-cell RTL chip representation. 
6.973 | Organic Optoelectronics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-973-organic-optoelectronics-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Vladimir Bulovic term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:The course examines optical and electronic processes in organic molecules and polymers that govern the behavior of practical organic optoelectronic devices. Electronic structure of a single organic molecule is used as a guide to the electronic behavior of organic aggregate structures. Emphasis is placed on the use of organic thin films in active organic devices including organic LEDs, solar cells, photodetectors, transistors, chemical sensors, memory cells, electrochromic devices, as well as xerography and organic non-linear optics. How to reach the ultimate miniaturization limit of molecular electronics and related nanoscale patterning techniques of organic materials will also be discussed. The class encompasses three laboratory sessions during which the students will practice the use of select vacuum and non-vacuum organic deposition techniques by making their own active organic devices.
6.974 | Engineering, Economics and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-934-engineering-economics-and-regulation-of-the-electric-power-sector-spring-2010 | textbook:Perez-Arriaga, Ignacio J., Hugh Rudnick, and Michel Rivier. "Electric Energy Systems—An Overview." Chapter 1 in Electric Energy Systems: Analysis and Operation. Gomez-Exposito, Antonio, Antonio J. Conejo, and Claudio Canizares, eds. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2009. textbook:Sioshansi, Fareidoon P., and Wolfgang Pfaffenberger, eds. Electricity Market Reform: An International Perspective. Oxford, UK: Elsevier Science, 2006. textbook:Ventosa, Mariano, and Pedro Linares. "The Economics of Regulation: Competitive Activities." Energy Regulators Training Course. Florence, Italy: Florence School of Regulation, 2003. O'Neill, Richard, Udi Helman, Benjamin Hobbs, and Ross Baldick. "Independent System Operators in the USA: History, Lessons Learned, and Prospects." Chapter 14 in Electricity Market Reform: An International Perspective. Edited by Sioshansi, Fareidoon P., and Wolfgang Pfaffenberger. Oxford, UK: Elsevier Science, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Ignacio Perez-Arriaga term:Spring 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:The course presents an in-depth interdisciplinary perspective of electric power systems, with regulation providing the link among the engineering, economic, legal and environmental viewpoints. Generation dispatch, demand response, optimal network flows, risk allocation, reliability of service, renewable energy sources, ancillary services, tariff design, distributed generation, rural electrification, environmental impacts and strategic sustainability issues will be among the topics addressed under both traditional and competitive regulatory frameworks.
6.974 | Fundamentals of Photonics: Quantum Electronics (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-974-fundamentals-of-photonics-quantum-electronics-spring-2006 | textbook:Saleh, B. E. A., and M. C. Teich. Fundamentals of Photonics. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1991. textbook:Hecht, E., and A. Zajac. Optics. 3rd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1997. textbook:Griffiths, D. Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1995. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, C., B. Diu, and F. Laloe. Quantum Mechanics I. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1992. textbook:Yariv, A. Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1997. textbook:Svelto, O. Principles of Lasers. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. textbook:Haus, H. A. Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1983. textbook:Allen, L., and J. H. Eberly. Optical Resonance and Two-Level Atoms. New ed. New York, NY: Dover, 1987. textbook:Liu, Jia-Ming. Photonic Devices. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Meystre, P., and M. Sargent, III. Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1986. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Franz Kärtner term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This course explores the fundamentals of optical and optoelectronic phenomena and devices based on classical and quantum properties of radiation and matter culminating in lasers and applications. Fundamentals include: Maxwell's electromagnetic waves, resonators and beams, classical ray optics and optical systems, quantum theory of light, matter and its interaction, classical and quantum noise, lasers and laser dynamics, continuous wave and short pulse generation, light modulation; examples from integrated optics and semiconductor optoelectronics and nonlinear optics.
6.975 | Introduction to Convex Optimization (Fall 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-079-introduction-to-convex-optimization-fall-2009 | textbook:Boyd, Stephen, and Lieven Vanderberghe. Convex Optimization. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Bertsekas, Dimitri. Convex Optimization Theory. Nashua, NH: Athena Scientific, 2009. textbook:Ben-Tal, Aharon, and Arkadi Nemirovski. Lectures on Modern Convex Optimization: Analysis, Algorithms, and Engineering Applications (MPS-SIAM Series on Optimization). Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial Mathematics, 2001. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Stephen Boyd,  Pablo Parrilo term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course aims to give students the tools and training to recognize convex optimization problems that arise in scientific and engineering applications, presenting the basic theory, and concentrating on modeling aspects and results that are useful in applications. Topics include convex sets, convex functions, optimization problems, least-squares, linear and quadratic programs, semidefinite programming, optimality conditions, and duality theory. Applications to signal processing, control, machine learning, finance, digital and analog circuit design, computational geometry, statistics, and mechanical engineering are presented. Students complete hands-on exercises using high-level numerical software. Acknowledgements The course materials were developed jointly by Prof. Stephen Boyd (Stanford), who was a visiting professor at MIT when this course was taught, and Prof. Lieven Vanderberghe (UCLA).
6.976 | High Speed Communication Circuits and Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-976-high-speed-communication-circuits-and-systems-spring-2003 | textbook:Lee, Thomas H. The Design of CMOS Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuits. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Razavi, Behzad. RF Microelectronics. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Kelley, Al, and Ira Pohl. A Book on C. Redwood City, CA: Benjamin Cummings, 1995 or later. textbook:Gonzalez, Guillermo. Microwave Transistor Amplifiers: Analysis and Design. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996. textbook:Rabaey, Jan. Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Perrott term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:6.976 covers circuit and system level design issues of high speed communication systems, with primary focus being placed on wireless and broadband data link applications. Specific circuit topics include transmission lines, high speed and low noise amplifiers, VCO's, and high speed digital circuits. Specific system topics include frequency synthesizers, clock and data recovery circuits, and GMSK transceivers. In addition to learning analysis skills for the above items, students will gain a significant amount of experience in simulating circuits in SPICE and systems in CppSim (a custom C++ simulator).
6.977 | Ultrafast Optics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-977-ultrafast-optics-spring-2005 | textbook:Svelto, Orazio. Principles of Lasers. 4th ed. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1998. textbook:Haus, Herman. Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1984. textbook:Allen, L., and J. H. Eberly. Optical Resonance and Two Level Atoms. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1987. textbook:Meystre, Pierre, and Murray Sargent. Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1998. textbook:Diels, Jean-Claude, Wolfgang Rudolph, Paul Liao, and Paul Kelley. Ultrashort Laser Pulse Phenomena: Fundamentals, Techniques, and Applications on a Femtosecond Time Scale. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996. textbook:Kärtner, F. X., ed. Topics in Applied Physics: Few-Cycle Laser Pulse Generation and Its Applications. Vol. 95. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Franz Kärtner term:Spring 2005 features:Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is offered to graduate students and addresses issues regarding ultrafast optics. Topics covered include: Generation, propagation and applications of ultrashort pulses (nano-, pico-, femto-, attosecond pulses); Linear and nonlinear pulse shaping processes: Optical solitons, Pulse compression; Laser principles:  Single- and multi-mode laser dynamics, Q-switching, Active and passive mode-locking; Pulse characterization: Autocorrelation, FROG, SPIDER; Noise in mode-locked lasers and its limitations in measurements; Laser amplifiers, optical parametric amplifiers, and oscillators; Applications in research and industry: Pump-probe techniques, Optical imaging, Frequency metrology, Laser ablation, High harmonic generation.
6.977 | Semiconductor Optoelectronics: Theory and Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-977-semiconductor-optoelectronics-theory-and-design-fall-2002 | textbook:Coldren, and Corzine. Diode Lasers and Photonic Integrated Circuits. 1st ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, October 16, 1995. textbook:Chuang, S. L. Physics of Optoelectronic Devices. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, September 8, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Rajeev Ram term:Fall 2002 features: description:6.977 focuses on the physics of the interaction of photons with semiconductor materials. The band theory of solids is used to calculate the absorption and gain of semiconductor media. The rate equation formalism is used to develop the concepts of laser threshold, population inversion and modulation response. Matrix methods and coupled mode theory are applied to resonator structures such as distributed feedback lasers, tunable lasers and microring devices. The course is also intended to introduce students to noise models for semiconductor devices and to applications of optoelectronic devices to fiber optic communications. This course is worth 12 Engineering Design points.
6.978J | Communications and Information Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-68j-communications-and-information-policy-spring-2006 | textbook:Textbook:  Nuechterlein, J., and P. Weiser. Digital Crossroads: American Telecommunications Policy in the Internet Age. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2005. textbook:Abbate, Janet. Inventing the Internet. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999. textbook:Stone, Deborah. Policy Paradox: The Art of Political Decision Making. New York, NY: W.W. Norton, 2001. textbook:Winner, Langdon. "Do Artifacts Have Politics?" In The Whale and the Reactor: A Search for Limits in an Age of High Technology. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1988. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. David D. Clark, Dr. Frank Field,  Sharon E. Gillett, Dr. William Lehr term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course provides an introduction to the technology and policy context of public communications networks, through critical discussion of current issues in communications policy and their historical roots. The course focuses on underlying rationales and models for government involvement and the complex dynamics introduced by co-evolving technologies, industry structure, and public policy objectives. Cases drawn from cellular, fixed-line, and Internet applications include evolution of spectrum policy and current proposals for reform; the migration to broadband and implications for universal service policies; and property rights associated with digital content. The course lays a foundation for thesis research in this domain. 
6.982J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
6.982J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Fall 2012) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-fall-2012 | textbook:[WM] =  McKeachie, W. J., et al. Teaching Tips: Strategies, Research, and Theory for College and University Teachers. 9th ed. D.C. Health & Co., 1994. textbook:[PW/FO] =  Wankat, P. C., and F. S. Oreovicz. Teaching Engineering. McGraw-Hill, 1992. textbook:[BGD] =  Davis, B. Gross. Tools for Teaching. Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1993. textbook:Bok, Derek. "The Evolution of American Colleges," and "Purposes." In Our Underachieving Colleges: A Candid Look at How Much Students Learn and Why they Should be Learning More. Princeton University Press, 2005, pp. 11–30. textbook:Hooks, Bell. Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of Freedom. Routledge Press, 1994, pp. 1–12. textbook:Seymour, E., and N. M. Hewitt. Talking about Leaving: Why Undergraduates Leave the Sciences. Westview Press, 2000, pp. 13–9, 33, 145–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "Week 7-Students as Learners." In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semeseter of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008, pp. 153–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "The Syllabus." Chapter 0 in On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Lang, J. M. "In the Classroom: Lectures." Chapter 3 In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Tauber, R.T., and C. Sargent Mester. Acting Lessons for Teachers: Using Performance Skills in the Classroom. Praeger, 2006. textbook:Halpern, B. L., and K. Lubar. Leadership Presence: Dramatic Techniques to Reach Out, Motivate and Inspire. Gotham, 2003. textbook:Alfeld, Peter. How to Solve It: A New Aspect of Mathematical Method. Summary of G. Polya. 2nd ed. Department of Mathematics, University of Utah. Princeton University Press, 1973. textbook:Barad, Karen. "A Feminist Approach to Teaching Quantum Physics." Chapter 2 in Teaching the Majority: Breaking the Gender Barrier in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering. Edited by S. Rosser. Teachers College Press, 1995, pp. 43–75. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Janet Rankin term:Fall 2012 features:This Course at MIT description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Topics include theories of adult learning; course development; promoting active learning, problem-solving, and critical thinking in students; communicating with a diverse student body; using educational technology to further learning; lecturing; creating effective tests and assignments; and assessment and evaluation. Students research and present a relevant topic of particular interest. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
