EE100 | The Electrical Engineering Profession | http://EE100.stanford.edu | instructors:Mitra, S. (PI); Dutton, R. (GP) description:Lectures/discussions on topics of importance to the electrical engineering professional. Continuing education, professional societies, intellectual property and patents, ethics, entrepreneurial engineering, and engineering management.
EE101A | Circuits I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE101A | instructors:Lee, T. (PI); Chen, C. (TA); Greene, B. (TA); Mehdian, S. (TA); Xu, Y. (TA) description:Introduction to circuit modeling and analysis. Topics include creating the models of typical components in electronic circuits and simplifying non-linear models for restricted ranges of operation (small signal model); and using network theory to solve linear and non-linear circuits under static and dynamic operations. Prerequisite: ENGR40 or ENGR40M is useful but not strictly required.
EE101B | Circuits II | http://EE101B.stanford.edu | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI) description:Continuation of EE101A. Introduction to circuit design for modern electronic systems. Modeling and analysis of analog gain stages, frequency response, feedback. Filtering and analog¿to¿digital conversion. Fundamentals of circuit simulation. Prerequisites: EE101A, EE102A. Recommended: CME102.
EE102A | Signal Processing and Linear Systems I | http://EE102A.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, J. (PI); Broaddus, P. (TA); Seshadri, A. (TA); Swerdlow, M. (TA); Tebuev, D. (TA) description:Concepts and tools for continuous- and discrete-time signal and system analysis with applications in signal processing, communications, and control. Mathematical representation of signals and systems. Linearity and time invariance. System impulse and step responses. System frequency response. Frequency-domain representations: Fourier series and Fourier transforms. Filtering and signal distortion. Time/frequency sampling and interpolation. Continuous-discrete-time signal conversion and quantization. Discrete-time signal processing. Prerequisite: MATH 53 or CME 102.
EE102B | Signal Processing and Linear Systems II | http://EE102B.stanford.edu | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI) description:Continuation of EE 102A. Concepts and tools for continuous- and discrete-time signal and system analysis with applications in communications, signal processing and control. Analog and digital modulation and demodulation. Sampling, reconstruction, decimation and interpolation. Finite impulse response filter design. Discrete Fourier transforms, applications in convolution and spectral analysis. Laplace transforms, applications in circuits and feedback control. Z transforms, applications in infinite impulse response filter design. Prerequisite: EE 102A.
EE103 | Introduction to Matrix Methods | http://EE103.stanford.edu | instructors:Boyd, S. (PI); Angeris, G. (TA); Busseti, E. (TA); Fan, L. (TA); Hwang, J. (TA); Leung, K. (TA); Mu, R. (TA); Nishimura, M. (TA); Park, D. (TA); Pathak, R. (TA); Prasad, V. (TA); Tea-mangkornpan, P. (TA) description:Introduction to applied linear algebra with emphasis on applications. Vectors, norm, and angle; linear independence and orthonormal sets; applications to document analysis. Clustering and the k-means algorithm.  Matrices, left and right inverses, QR factorization. Least-squares and model fitting, regularization and cross-validation.  Constrained and nonlinear least-squares.  Applications include time-series prediction, tomography, optimal control, and portfolio optimization.  Prerequisites:MATH 51 or CME 100, and basic knowledge of computing (CS 106A is more than enough, and can be taken concurrently). EE103/CME103 and Math 104 cover complementary topics in applied linear algebra. The focus of EE103 is on a few linear algebra concepts, and many applications; the focus of Math 104 is on algorithms and concepts.
EE107 | Embedded Networked Systems | http://EE107.stanford.edu | instructors:Katti, S. (PI); Anemogiannis, A. (TA); Zhang, P. (GP) description:Networked embedded systems are often hidden from our view, but they are a key component that enables our modern society. Embedded systems bridge our physical world with powerful digital measurement and control systems. Applications of today's embedded systems range from stabilization in drones  authentication in credit cards, and even temperature control in toasters. In this class, students will learn about how to build an networked embedded system from the ground up. The lectures will focus on the key enabling components of embedded systems, including: Clocks, GPIO, Interrupts, Busses, Amplifiers, Regulators, Power supplies, ADC/DAC, DMA, and Storage. The goal of the class is to familiarize the students with these components such that they can build their own embedded systems in devices. Prerequisites: EE 102A or ENGR 40M.
EE108 | Digital System Design | http://EE108.stanford.edu | instructors:Mitra, S. (PI); Prabala, R. (PI); Bertrand, A. (TA); Duncan, B. (TA); Li, W. (TA); Prabala, R. (TA); Wang, V. (TA) description:Digital circuit, logic, and system design. Digital representation of information. CMOS logic circuits. Combinational logic design. Logic building blocks, idioms, and structured design. Sequential logic design and timing analysis. Clocks and synchronization. Finite state machines. Microcode control. Digital system design. Control and datapath partitioning.  Lab.  Undergraduates must enroll for 4 units.  *In Autumn, enrollment preference is given to EE majors.  Formerly EE 108A.
EE109 | Digital Systems Design Lab | http://EE109.stanford.edu | instructors:Olukotun, O. (PI) description:The design of integrated digital systems encompassing both customized software and hardware. Software/hardware design tradeoffs. Algorithm design for pipelining and parallelism. System latency and throughput tradeoffs. FPGA optimization techniques. Integration with external systems and smart devices. Firmware configuration and embedded system considerations. Enrollment limited to 25;  preference to graduating seniors. Prerequisites: 108B, and CS 106B or X.
EE114 | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design | http://EE114.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Seyed Aliroteh, M. (TA); Singhvi, A. (TA) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Differential circuits, frequency response, and feedback will also be covered. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Undergraduates must take EE 114 for 4 units.  Prerequisite: 101B. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE116 | Semiconductor Device Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE116 | instructors:Pop, E. (PI) description:The fundamental operation of semiconductor devices and overview of applications. The physical principles of semiconductors, both silicon and compound materials; operating principles and device equations for junction devices (diodes, bipolar transistor, photo-detectors). Introduction to quantum effects and band theory of solids. Recommended corequisites: EE 65 and EE 101B. Non-EE majors are encouraged to take ENGR 40 before EE 116.
EE118 | Introduction to Mechatronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE118 | instructors:Gumerlock, K. (PI); Kenny, T. (PI); HAM, J. (TA); Haksar, R. (TA); Handa, K. (TA); Kushan, I. (TA); Lin, A. (TA); Wegrzynski, M. (TA); Winterkorn, M. (TA) description:Technologies involved in mechatronics (intelligent electro-mechanical systems), and techniques to apply this technology to mecatronic system design. Topics include: electronics (A/D, D/A converters, op-amps, filters, power devices); software program design, event-driven programming; hardware and DC stepper motors, solenoids, and robust sensing. Large, open-ended team project. Prerequisites: ENGR 40, CS 106, or equivalents.
EE122A | Analog Circuits Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE122A | instructors:Kovacs, G. (PI); Esposito, B. (TA) description:The course covers practical applications of mixed-signal circuits, including simple amplifiers, filters (passive, op-amp, switched-capacitor and digital-signal-processor-based), oscillators, power supplies, sensors and interface (input/output) circuits. Practical design skills, computer-aided design, and circuit fabrication and debugging are core topics. The design process is learned through proposing, designing, simulating, building, debugging, and demonstrating a substantial and novel team project. Radio frequency and largely digital projects not suitable for EE 122. Prerequisite: basic electronics laboratory experience with solid working knowledge of circuit analysis, Fourier and Laplace methods.
EE124 | Introduction to Neuroelectrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE124 | instructors:Shenoy, K. (PI); Staffa, N. (TA) description:Fundamental properties of electrical activity in neurons, technology for measuring and altering neural activity, and operating principles of modern neurological and neural prosthetic medical systems. Topics: action potential generation and propagation, neuro-MEMS and measurement systems, experimental design and statistical data analysis, information encoding and decoding, clinical diagnostic systems, and fully-implantable neural prosthetic systems design. Prerequisite: EE 101A and EE 102A.
EE133 | Analog Communications Design Laboratory | http://EE133.stanford.edu | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI); Alabi, A. (TA); Nalianya, J. (TA) description:Design, testing, and applications. Amplitude modulation (AM) using multiplier circuits. Frequency modulation (FM) based on discrete oscillator and integrated modulator circuits such as voltage-controlled oscillators (VCOs). Phased-lock loop (PLL) techniques, characterization of key parameters, and their applications. Practical aspects of circuit implementations. Labs involve building and characterization of AM and FM modulation/demodulation circuits and subsystems. Enrollment limited to 30 undergraduates and coterminal EE students. Prerequisite: EE101B. Undergraduate students enroll in EE133 and Graduate students enroll in EE233. Recommended: EE114/214A.
EE134 | Introduction to Photonics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE134 | instructors:Hesselink, L. (PI); Zaman, M. (TA) description:Photonics, optical components, and fiber optics. Conceptual and mathematical tools for design and analysis of optical communication, sensor and imaging systems. Experimental characterization of semiconductor lasers, optical fibers, photodetectors, receiver circuitry, fiber optic links, optical amplifiers, and optical sensors. Class project on confocal microscopy or other method of sensing or analyzing biometric data. Laboratory experiments. Prerequisite: EE 102A and one of the following: EE 42, Physics 43, or Physics 63.
EE142 | Engineering Electromagnetics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE142 | instructors:Fan, J. (PI); Qiu, B. (TA) description:Introduction to electromagnetism and Maxwell's equations in static and dynamic regimes.  Electrostatics and magnetostatics: Gauss's, Coulomb's, Faraday's, Ampere's, Biot-Savart's laws.  Electric and magnetic potentials. Boundary conditions. Electric and magnetic field energy.  Electrodynamics: Wave equation; Electromagnetic waves; Phasor form of Maxwell's equations.nSolution of the wave equation in 1D free space: Wavelength, wave-vector, forward and backward propagating plane waves.Poynting's theorem. Propagation in lossy media, skin depth. Reflection and refraction at planar boundaries, total internal reflection. Solutions of wave equation for various 1D-3D problems: Electromagnetic resonators, waveguides periodic media, transmission lines. Formerly EE 141.  Pre-requisites: Phys 43 or EE 42, CME 100, CME 102 (recommended)
EE14N | Things about Stuff | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE14N | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The stories behind disruptive inventions such as the telegraph, telephone, wireless, television, transistor, and chip are as important as the inventions themselves, for they elucidate broadly applicable scientific principles. Focus is on studying consumer devices; projects include building batteries, energy conversion devices and semiconductors from pocket change. Students may propose topics and projects of interest to them. The trajectory of the course is determined in large part by the students themselves.
EE153 | Power Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE153 | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Choi, J. (TA); Gu, L. (TA); Surakitbovorn, K. (TA) description:Addressing the energy challenges of today and the environmental challenges of the future will require efficient energy conversion techniques. This course will discuss the circuits used to efficiently convert ac power to dc power, dc power from one voltage level to another, and dc power to ac power. The components used in these circuits (e.g., diodes, transistors, capacitors, inductors) will also be covered in detail to highlight their behavior in a practical implementation. A lab will be held with the class where students will obtain hands on experience with power electronic circuits. Formerly EE 292J. Prerequisite: EE 101B.
EE155 | Green Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE155 | instructors:Dally, B. (PI); Danyliw, N. (TA); Ponec, A. (TA); Sun, R. (TA) description:Many green technologies including hybrid cars, photovoltaic energy systems, efficient power supplies, and energy-conserving control systems have at their heart intelligent, high-power electronics.  This course examines this technology and uses green-tech examples to teach the engineering principles of modeling, optimization, analysis, simulation, and design.  Topics include power converter topologies, periodic steady-state analysis, control, motors and drives, photovol-taic systems, and design of magnetic components.  The course involves a hands-on laboratory and a substantial final project.  Formerly EE 152. Required: EE101B, EE102A, EE108.  Recommended:  ENGR40 or EE122A.
EE15N | The Art and Science of Engineering Design | http://EE15N.stanford.edu | instructors:Goldsmith, A. (PI); Le, M. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:The goal of this seminar is to introduce freshmen to the design process associated with an engineering project. The seminar will consist of a series of lectures. The first part of each lecture will focus on the different design aspects of an engineering project, including formation of the design team, developing a project statement, generating design ideas and specifications, finalizing the design, and reporting the outcome. Students will form teams to follow these procedures in designing a term project of their choice over the quarter. The second part of each lecture will consist of outside speakers, including founders of some of the most exciting companies in Silicon Valley, who will share their experiences about engineering design. On-site visits to Silicon Valley companies to showcase their design processes will also be part of the course. The seminar serves three purposes: (1) it introduces students to the design process of turning an idea into a final design, (2) it presents the different functions that people play in a project, and (3) it gives students a chance to consider what role in a project would be best suited to their interests and skills.
EE178 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis | http://EE178.stanford.edu | instructors:Prabhakar, B. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Li, C. (TA) description:Introduction to probability and statistics and their role in modeling and analyzing real world phenomena. Events, sample space, and probability. Discrete random variables, probability mass functions, independence and conditional probability, expectation and conditional expectation. Continuous random variables, probability density functions, independence and expectation, derived densities. Transforms, moments, sums of independent random variables. Simple random processes. Limit theorems. Introduction to statistics: significance, estimation and detection. Prerequisites: basic calculus.
EE179 | Analog and Digital Communication Systems | http://EE179.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, J. (PI) description:This course covers the fundamental principles underlying the analysis, design and optimization of analog and digital communication systems. Design examples will be taken from the most prevalent communication systems today:  cell phones, Wifi, radio and TV broadcasting, satellites, and computer networks. Analysis techniques based on Fourier transforms and energy/power spectral density will be developed. Mathematical models for random variables and random (noise) signals will be presented, which are used to characterize filtering and modulation of random noise. These techniques will then be used to design analog (AM and FM) and digital (PSK and FSK) communication systems and determine their performance over channels with noise and interference. Prerequisite: 102A.  Not offered AY 14-15, and students are encouraged to enroll in EE 107 instead.
EE180 | Digital Systems Architecture | http://EE180.stanford.edu | instructors:Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Ayers, G. (TA); Gala, J. (TA); Xu, J. (TA) description:The design of processor-based digital systems. Instruction sets, addressing modes, data types. Assembly language programming, low-level data structures, introduction to operating systems and compilers. Processor microarchitecture, microprogramming, pipelining. Memory systems and caches. Input/output, interrupts, buses and DMA. System design implementation alternatives, software/hardware tradeoffs. Labs involve the design of processor subsystems and processor-based embedded systems. Formerly EE 108B.  Prerequisite: CS107 (required) and EE108 (recommended but not required).
EE190 | Special Studies or Projects in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE190 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member. Individual or team activities involve lab experimentation, design of devices or systems, or directed reading. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE191 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Carpenter, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lauben, D. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Moslehi, M. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. If a letter grade given on the basis of required written report or examination is not appropriate, enroll in 190. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE191A | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191A | instructors:Boahen, K. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI) description:EE191A is part of the Accelerated Calculus for Engineers program. Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. EE 191A counts as a Math one unit seminar course: it is this unit that constitutes the ACE program.
EE191W | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191W | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rajagopal, R. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:WIM-version of EE 191.  For EE students using special studiesn(e.g., honors project, independent research project) to satisfy thenwriting-in-major requirement.  A written report that has gone through revision with an advisor is required.  An advisor from the Writing Center is recommended.
EE191WW | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191WW | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI) description:WIM-version of EE 191. For EE students using special studies (e.g., honors project, independent research project) to satisfy the writing-in-major requirement. A written report that has gone through revision with an advisor is required. An advisor from the Writing Center is recommended. Undergraduate students must take EE191WW concurrently with EE 264 for 4 units to fulfill the WIM requirement. Enrollment by department permission only.
EE203 | The Entrepreneurial Engineer | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE203 | instructors:Melen, R. (PI) description:Seminar. For prospective entrepreneurs with an engineering background. Contributions made to the business world by engineering graduates. Speakers include Stanford and other engineering and M.B.A. graduates who have founded large and small companies in nearby communities. Contributions from EE faculty and other departments including Law, Business, and MS&E.May be repeated for credit.
EE207 | Neuromorphics: Brains in Silicon | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE207 | instructors:Boahen, K. (PI) description:(Formerly EE 304) Neuromorphic systems run perceptual, cognitive and motor tasks in real-time on a network of highly interconnected nonlinear units. To maximize density and minimize energy, these units--like the brain's neurons--are heterogeneous and stochastic. The first half of the course covers learning algorithms that automatically synthesize network configurations to perform a desired computation on a given heterogeneous neural substrate. The second half of the course surveys system-on-a-chip architectures that efficiently realize highly interconnected networks and mixed analog-digital circuit designs that implement area and energy-efficient nonlinear units. Prerequisites: EE102A and EE108 are required; EE114 is recommended.
EE212 | Integrated Circuit Fabrication Processes | http://EE212.stanford.edu | instructors:Plummer, J. (PI); Xue, M. (TA) description:For students interested in the physical bases and practical methods of silicon VLSI chip fabrication, or the impact of technology on device and circuit design, or intending to pursue doctoral research involving the use of Stanford's Nanofabrication laboratory. Process simulators illustrate concepts. Topics: principles of integrated circuit fabrication processes, physical and chemical models for crystal growth, oxidation, ion implantation, etching, deposition, lithography, and back-end processing. Required for 410.
EE213 | Digital MOS Integrated Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE213 | instructors:Chandra, V. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI) description:Looks a little more deeply at how digital circuits operate, what makes a gate digital, and how to "cheat" to improve performance or power. To aid this analysis we create a number of different models for MOS transistors and choose the simplest one that can explain our the circuit's operation, using both hand and computer analysis. We explore static, dynamic, pulse-mode, and current mode logic, and show how they are are used in SRAM design. Topics include sizing for min delay, noise and noise margins, power dissipation. The class uses memory design (SRAM) as a motivating example. DRAM and EEPROM design issues are also covered.  Formerly EE 313.  Prerequisites: EE 101B, EE 108. Recommended: EE 271.
EE214A | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE214A | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Seyed Aliroteh, M. (TA); Singhvi, A. (TA) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Differential circuits, frequency response, and feedback will also be covered. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Undergraduates must take EE 114 for 4 units.  Prerequisite: 101B. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE214B | Advanced Analog Integrated Circuit Design | http://EE214B.stanford.edu | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI); Singhvi, A. (TA); Sun, C. (TA) description:Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits in advanced MOS and bipolar technologies. Device operation and compact modeling in support of circuit simulations needed for design. Emphasis on quantitative evaluations of performance using hand calculations and circuit simulations; intuitive approaches to design. Analytical and approximate treatments of noise and distortion; analysis and design of feedback circuits. Design of archetypal analog blocks for networking and communications such as broadband gain stages and transimpedance amplifiers. Prerequisites: EE114/214A.
EE216 | Principles and Models of Semiconductor Devices | http://EE216.stanford.edu | instructors:Harris, J. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Lu, C. (TA) description:Carrier generation, transport, recombination, and storage in semiconductors. Physical principles of operation of the p-n junction, heterojunction, metal semiconductor contact, bipolar junction transistor, MOS capacitor, MOS and junction field-effect transistors, and related optoelectronic devices such as CCDs, solar cells, LEDs, and detectors. First-order device models that reflect physical principles and are useful for integrated-circuit analysis and design. Prerequisite: 116 or equivalent.
EE21N | What is Nanotechnology? | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE21N | instructors:Wong, H. (PI) description:Nanotechnology is an often used word and it means many things to different people. Scientists and Engineers have some notion of what nanotechnology is, societal perception may be entirely different. In this course, we start with the classic paper by Richard Feynman ("There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom"), which laid down the challenge to the nanotechnologists. Then we discuss two classic books that offer a glimpse of what nanotechnology is: Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology by Eric Drexler, and Prey by Michael Crichton. Drexler's thesis sparked the imagination of what nano machinery might do, whereas Crichton's popular novel channeled the public's attention to this subject by portraying a disastrous scenario of a technology gone astray. We will use the scientific knowledge to analyze the assumptions and predictions of these classic works. We will draw upon the latest research advances to illustrate the possibilities and impossibilities of nanotechnology.
EE222 | Applied Quantum Mechanics I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE222 | instructors:Miller, D. (PI); Donnelly, C. (TA); Paik, S. (TA); Xiao, X. (TA) description:Emphasis is on applications in modern devices and systems. Topics include: Schrödinger's equation, eigenfunctions and eigenvalues, solutions of simple problems including quantum wells and tunneling, quantum harmonic oscillator, coherent states, operator approach to quantum mechanics, Dirac notation, angular momentum, hydrogen atom, calculation techniques including matrix diagonalization, perturbation theory, variational method,  and time-dependent perturbation theory with applications to optical absorption, nonlinear optical coefficients, and Fermi's golden rule. Prerequisites: MATH 52 and 53, EE 65 or PHYSICS 65 (or PHYSICS 43 and 45).
EE223 | Applied Quantum Mechanics II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE223 | instructors:Miller, D. (PI); Donnelly, C. (TA); Paik, S. (TA) description:Continuation of 222, including more advanced topics: quantum mechanics of crystalline materials, methods for one-dimensional problems, spin, systems of identical particles (bosons and fermions), introductory quantum optics (electromagnetic field quantization, coherent states), fermion annihilation and creation operators, interaction of different kinds of particles (spontaneous emission, optical absorption, and stimulated emission). Quantum information and interpretation of quantum mechanics. Other topics in electronics, optoelectronics, optics, and quantum information science. Prerequisite: 222.
EE225 | Biochips and Medical Imaging | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE225 | instructors:Wang, S. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); Divel, S. (TA); Gani, A. (TA); Smith, G. (TA); Yao, B. (TA); Yuan, E. (TA) description:The course covers state-of-the-art and emerging bio-sensors, bio-chips, imaging modalities, and nano-therapies which will be studied in the context of human physiology including the nervous system, circulatory system and immune system. Medical diagnostics will be divided into bio-chips (in-vitro diagnostics) and medical and molecular imaging (in-vivo imaging). In-depth discussion on cancer and cardiovascular diseases and the role of diagnostics and nano-therapies.
EE230 | Biophotonics: Light in Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE230 | instructors:Bowden, A. (PI); Li, L. (TA) description:This course will provide an introduction to the use of optics in biology, primarily focusing on microscopy from an engineering perspective (i.e., the focus of the course is more on technology than biology). Course material will be interspersed with labs to provide hands-on experience with common techniques in modern microscopy (e.g., brightfield, fluorescence, confocal and phase contrast microscopy). Background in college physics strongly recommended. Programming experience with Matlab required. Suggested prerequisites: EE 134 or EE 236A.
EE233 | Analog Communications Design Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE233 | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI); Alabi, A. (TA); Nalianya, J. (TA) description:Design, testing, and applications. Amplitude modulation (AM) using multiplier circuits. Frequency modulation (FM) based on discrete oscillator and integrated modulator circuits such as voltage-controlled oscillators (VCOs). Phased-lock loop (PLL) techniques, characterization of key parameters, and their applications. Practical aspects of circuit implementations. Labs involve building and characterization of AM and FM modulation/demodulation circuits and subsystems. Enrollment limited to 30 undergraduates and coterminal EE students. Prerequisite: EE101B. Undergraduate students enroll in EE133 and Graduate students enroll in EE233. Recommended: EE114/214A.
EE234 | Photonics Laboratory | http://EE234.stanford.edu | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Miao, Y. (TA) description:Photonics and fiber optics with a focus on communication and sensing. Experimental characterization of semiconductor lasers, optical fibers, photodetectors, receiver circuitry, fiber optic links, optical amplifiers, and optical sensors and photonic crystals. Prerequisite: EE 242 or equivalent.  Recommended: EE 236A.
EE236A | Modern Optics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236A | instructors:Byer, R. (PI); Jankowski, M. (TA) description:Geometrical optics, aberrations, optical instruments, radiometry. Ray matrices and Gaussian beams. Wave nature of light. Plane waves: at interfaces, in media with varying refractive index. Diffraction and Fourier optics. Interference, single-beam interferometers (Fabry-Perot), multiple-beam interferometers (Michelson, Mach-Zehnder). Polarization, Jones and Stokes calculi.nFormerly EE 268. Prerequisites: EE 142 or familiarity with electromagnetism and plane waves.
EE236AL | MODERN OPTICS - LABORATORY | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236AL | instructors:Byer, R. (PI) description:The Laboratory Course allows students to work hands-on with optical equipment to conduct five experiments that compliment the lecture course.  Examples are Gaussian Beams and Resonators, Interferometers, and Diffraction.
EE236B | Guided Waves | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236B | instructors:Fan, S. (PI); Assawaworrarit, S. (TA) description:Maxwell's equations, constitutive relations. Kramers-Kronig relations. Modes in waveguides: slab, rectangular, circular. Photonic crystals, surface plasmon modes. General properties of waveguide modes: orthogonality, phase and group indices, group velocity dispersion. Chirped pulse propagation in dispersive media and its connection to Gaussian beam propagation. Time lens. Waveguide technologies: glass, silicon, III-V semiconductor, metallic. Waveguide devices: fibers, lasers, modulators, arrayed waveguide gratings. Scattering matrix description of passive optical devices, and constraints from energy conservation, time-reversal symmetry and reciprocity. Mode coupling, directional couplers, distributed-feedback structures. Resonators from scattering matrix and input-output perspective. Micro-ring resonators.nFormerly EE 235. Prerequisites: EE 236A and EE 242 or familiarity with differential form of Maxwell's equations.
EE236C | Lasers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236C | instructors:Heinz, T. (PI) description:Atomic systems, spontaneous emission, stimulated emission, amplification. Three- and four-level systems, rate equations, pumping schemes. Laser principles, conditions for steady-state oscillation. Transverse and longitudinal mode control and tuning. Exemplary laser systems: gas (HeNe), solid state (Nd:YAG, Ti:sapphire) and semiconductors. Elements of laser dynamics and noise.  Formerly EE231.  Prerequisites: EE 236B and familiarity with modern physics and semiconductor physics. Recommended: EE 216 and EE 223 (either may be taken concurrently).
EE23N | Imaging: From the Atom to the Universe | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE23N | instructors:Hesselink, L. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. Forms of imaging including human and animal vision systems, atomic force microscope, microscope, digital camera, holography and three-dimensional imaging, telescope, synthetic aperture radar imaging, nuclear magnetic imaging, sonar and gravitational wave imaging, and the Hubble Space telescope. Physical principles and exposure to real imaging devices and systems.
EE242 | Electromagnetic Waves | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE242 | instructors:Fan, J. (PI); Qiu, B. (TA) description:Continuation of 142. Maxwell's equations. Plane waves in lossless and lossy media. Skin effect. Flow of electromagnetic power (Poynting's theorem). Reflection and refraction of waves at planar boundaries. Snell's law and total internal reflection. Reflection and refraction from lossy media. Guided waves. Parallel-plate and dielectric-slab waveguides. Hollow wave-guides, cavity resonators, microstrip waveguides, optical fibers. Interaction of fields with matter and particles. Antennas and radiation of electromagnetic energy. Prerequisites: EE 142 or PHYSICS 120.
EE243 | Semiconductor Optoelectronic Devices | http://EE243.stanford.edu | instructors:Harris, J. (PI) description:Semiconductor physics and optical processes in semiconductors. Operating principles and practical device features of semiconductor optoelectronic materials and heterostructures. Devices include: optical detectors (p-i-n, avalanche, and MSM); light emitting diodes; electroabsorptive modulators (Franz-Keldysh and QCSE), electrorefractive (directional couplers, Mach-Zehnder), switches (SEEDs); and lasers (waveguide and vertical cavity surface emitting). Prerequisites: semiconductor devices and solid state physics such as EE 216 or equivalent.
EE247 | Introduction to Optical Fiber Communications | http://EE247.stanford.edu | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI); Gu, R. (TA) description:Fibers: single- and multi-mode, attenuation, modal dispersion, group-velocity dispersion, polarization-mode dispersion. Nonlinear effects in fibers: Raman, Brillouin, Kerr. Self- and cross-phase modulation, four-wave mixing. Sources: light-emitting diodes, laser diodes, transverse and longitudinal mode control, modulation, chirp, linewidth, intensity noise. Modulators: electro-optic, electro-absorption. Photodiodes: p-i-n, avalanche, responsivity, capacitance, transit time. Receivers: high-impedance, transimpedance, bandwidth, noise. Digital intensity modulation formats: non-return-to-zero, return-to-zero. Receiver performance: Q factor, bit-error ratio, sensitivity, quantum limit. Sensitivity degradations: extinction ratio, intensity noise, jitter, dispersion. Wavelength-division multiplexing. System architectures: local-area, access, metropolitan-area, long-haul. Prerequisites: EE 102A and EE 142.
EE251 | High-Frequency Circuit Design Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE251 | instructors:Lee, T. (PI); Buckmaster, G. (TA) description:Students will study the theory of operation of instruments such as the time-domain reflectometer, sampling oscilloscope and vector network analyzer. They will build on that theoretical foundation by designing, constructing and characterizing numerous wireless building blocks in the upper-UHF range (e.g., up to about 500MHz), in a running series of laboratory exercises that conclude in a final project. Examples include impedance-matching and coupling structures, filters, narrowband and broadband amplifiers, mixers/modulators, and voltage-controlled oscillators. Prerequisite: EE 114 or EE 214A.
EE252 | Antennas | http://EE252.stanford.edu | instructors:Poon, A. (PI); Momeni, A. (TA) description:This course aims to cover the theory, simulation, and hands-on experiment in antenna design.  Topics include: basic parameters to describe the performance and characteristics of an antenna, link budget analyses, solving the fields from a Hertizian dipole, duality, equivalence principle, reciprocity, linear wire antenna, circular loop antenna, antenna array, slot and patch antennas, helical antennas, wideband antennas, size reduction techniques, wideband small antennas, and circularly polarized (CP) small antennas.  Students will learn to use a commercial electromagnetic stimulator in lab sessions.  A final project is designed to solve a research antenna design problem in biomedical area or wireless communications.  Prerequisite: EE 142 or Physics 120 or equivalent.  Enrollment capacity limited to 25 students.
EE253 | Power Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE253 | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Choi, J. (TA); Gu, L. (TA); Surakitbovorn, K. (TA) description:Addressing the energy challenges of today and the environmental challenges of the future will require efficient energy conversion techniques. This course will discuss the circuits used to efficiently convert ac power to dc power, dc power from one voltage level to another, and dc power to ac power. The components used in these circuits (e.g., diodes, transistors, capacitors, inductors) will also be covered in detail to highlight their behavior in a practical implementation. A lab will be held with the class where students will obtain hands on experience with power electronic circuits. Formerly EE 292J. Prerequisite: EE 101B.
EE254 | Advanced Topics in Power Electronics | http://EE254.stanford.edu | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:In this course, we will study the practical issues related to the practical design of power electronic converters. We will also explore the trade-offs involved in selecting among the different circuits used to convert ac to dc, dc to ac and back to dc over a wide range of power levels suitable for different applications. In Advanced Topics in Power Electronic, as a multidisciplinary field, we will discuss power electronics circuits, extraction of transfer functions in Continuous and discontinuous conduction mode, voltage and current control of power converters, design of input/output filters to meet Electro Magnetic Interference specifications, layout of power electronics circuits and put this knowledge in a very practical context. Prerequisites: EE 153/253.
EE255 | Green Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE255 | instructors:Dally, B. (PI); Danyliw, N. (TA); Ponec, A. (TA); Sun, R. (TA) description:Many green technologies including hybrid cars, photovoltaic energy systems, efficient power supplies, and energy-conserving control systems have at their heart intelligent, high-power electronics.  This course examines this technology and uses green-tech examples to teach the engineering principles of modeling, optimization, analysis, simulation, and design.  Topics include power converter topologies, periodic steady-state analysis, control, motors and drives, photovol-taic systems, and design of magnetic components.  The course involves a hands-on laboratory and a substantial final project.  Formerly EE 152. Required: EE101B, EE102A, EE108.  Recommended:  ENGR40 or EE122A.
EE256 | Numerical Electromagnetics | http://EE256.stanford.edu | instructors:Buyukalp, Y. (PI); Piggott, A. (PI); Su, L. (TA) description:Principles and applications of numerical techniques for solving practical problems of electromagnetics. Finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method and finite-difference frequency-domain (FDFD) method for solving Maxwell's equations. Numerical analysis of stability. Perfectly matched layer (PML) absorbing boundaries. Total-field/scattered-field (TF/SF) method. Waveguide mode analysis. Bloch boundary conditions. The course requires programming and the use of MATLAB or other equivalent tools. Prerequisite: EE 242 or equivalent.
EE261 | The Fourier Transform and Its Applications | http://EE261.stanford.edu | instructors:Gill, J. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Li, H. (TA); Paik, S. (TA); Siripuram, A. (TA) description:The Fourier transform as a tool for solving physical problems. Fourier series, the Fourier transform of continuous and discrete signals and its properties. The Dirac delta, distributions, and generalized transforms. Convolutions and correlations and applications; probability distributions, sampling theory, filters, and analysis of linear systems. The discrete Fourier transform and the FFT algorithm. Multidimensional Fourier transform and use in imaging. Further applications to optics, crystallography. Emphasis is on relating the theoretical principles to solving practical engineering and science problems. Prerequisites: Math through ODEs, basic linear algebra, Comfort with sums and discrete signals, Fourier series at the level of 102A
EE263 | Introduction to Linear Dynamical Systems | http://EE263.stanford.edu | instructors:Nasiri Mahalati, R. (PI); Hemmati, S. (TA); Momeni, A. (TA); Shah, K. (TA); Sharafat, A. (TA); Zhou, Z. (TA) videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/introduction-to-linear-dynamical/id495052533 description:Applied linear algebra and linear dynamical systems with applications to circuits, signal processing, communications, and control systems. Topics: least-squares approximations of over-determined equations, and least-norm solutions of underdetermined equations. Symmetric matrices, matrix norm, and singular-value decomposition. Eigenvalues, left and right eigenvectors, with dynamical interpretation. Matrix exponential, stability, and asymptotic behavior. Multi-input/multi-output systems, impulse and step matrices; convolution and transfer-matrix descriptions. Control, reachability, and state transfer; observability and least-squares state estimation. Prerequisites: linear algebra and matrices as in MATH104; differential equations and Laplace transforms as in EE102B.
EE264 | Digital Signal Processing | http://EE264.stanford.edu | instructors:Mujica, F. (PI); Schafer, R. (PI); Burkle, M. (TA); Messingher, S. (TA); Patel, A. (TA) description:This is a course on digital signal processing techniques and their applications. Topics include: review of DSP fundamentals; discrete-time random signals; sampling and multi-rate systems; oversampling and quantization in A-to-D conversion; properties of LTI systems; quantization in fixed-point implementations of filters; digital filter design; discrete Fourier Transform and FFT; spectrum analysis using the DFT; and parametric signal modeling.  The course will also discuss applications of DSP in areas such as speech and audio processing, autonomous vehicles, and software radio.  An optional (1 extra credit hour) lab will provide a hands-on opportunity to explore the application of DSP theory to practical real-time applications. For more information, see the course web page at ee264.stanford.edu. Prerequisite: EE102A and EE102B or equivalent.
EE267 | Virtual Reality | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE267 | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:OpenGL, real-time rendering, 3D display systems, display optics & electronics, IMUs and sensors, tracking, haptics, rendering pipeline, multimodel human perception and depth perception, stereo rendering, presence. Emphasis is on VR technology. Hands-on programming assignments. Final project: create your own virtual environment. Prerequistites: strong programming skills. Helpful: basic computer graphics / OpenGL.
EE271 | Introduction to VLSI Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE271 | instructors:Mitra, S. (PI); Jin, O. (TA); Zhang, Z. (TA) description:Provides a quick introduction to MOS transistors and IC fabrication and then creates abstractions to allow you to create and reason about complex digital systems.  It uses a switch resistor model of a transistor, uses it to model gates, and then shows how gates and physical layout can be synthesized from Verilog or SystemVerilog descriptions.  Most of the class will be spent on providing techniques to create designs that can be validated, are low power, provide good performance, and can be completed in finite time. Prerequisites: 101A, 108A and 108B; familiarity with transistors, logic design, Verilog and digital system organization
EE273 | Digital Systems Engineering | http://EE273.stanford.edu | instructors:Weaver, J. (PI) description:Electrical issues in the design of high-performance digital systems, including signaling, timing, synchronization, noise, and power distribution. High-speed signaling methods; noise in digital systems, its effect on signaling, and methods for noise reduction; timing conventions; timing noise (skew and jitter), its effect on systems, and methods for mitigating timing noise; synchronization issues and synchronizer design; clock and power distribution problems and techniques; impact of electrical issues on system architecture and design. Prerequisites: EE101A and EE108A. Recommended: EE114/214A.
EE278 | Introduction to Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE278.stanford.edu | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Barnes, L. (TA) description:Review of basic probability and random variables. Random vectors and processes; convergence and limit theorems; IID, independent increment, Markov, and Gaussian random processes; stationary random processes; autocorrelation and power spectral density; mean square error estimation, detection, and linear estimation. Formerly EE 278B. Prerequisites: EE178 and linear systems and Fourier transforms at the level of EE102A,B or EE261.
EE279 | Introduction to Digital Communication | http://EE279.stanford.edu | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Inan, H. (TA) description:Digital communication is a rather unique field in engineering in which theoretical ideas have had an extraordinary impact on the design of actual systems. The course provides a basic understanding of the analysis and design of digital communication systems, building on various ideas from probability theory, stochastic processes, linear algebra and Fourier analysis. Topics include: detection and probability of error for binary and M-ary signals (PAM, QAM, PSK), receiver design and sufficient statistics, controlling the spectrum and the Nyquist criterion, bandpass communication and up/down conversion, design trade-offs: rate, bandwidth, power and error probability, coding and decoding (block codes, convolutional coding and Viterbi decoding).  Prerequisites: 179 or 261, and 178 or 278
EE282 | Computer Systems Architecture | http://EE282.stanford.edu | instructors:Kozyrakis, C. (PI) description:Course focuses on how to build modern computing systems, namely notebooks, smartphones, and data centers, covering primarily their hardware architecture and certain system software aspects. For each system class, we cover the system architecture, processor technology, advanced memory hierarchy and I/O organization, power and energy management, and reliability. We will also cover topics such as interactions with system software, virtualization, solid state storage, and security. The programming assignments allow students to explore performance/energy tradeoffs when using heterogeneous hardware resources on smartphone devices. Prerequisite: EE108B. Recommended: CS 140.
EE284 | Introduction to Computer Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE284 | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI); Sly, A. (TA) description:Structure and components of computer networks; functions and services; packet switching; layered architectures; OSI reference model; physical layer; data link layer; error control; window flow control; media access control protocols used in local area networks (Ethernet, Token Ring, FDDI) and satellite networks; network layer (datagram service, virtual circuit service, routing, congestion control, Internet Protocol); transport layer (UDP, TCP); application layer.
EE285 | Embedded Systems Workshop | http://EE285.stanford.edu | instructors:Levis, P. (PI); Leonard, S. (TA) description:Project-centric building hardware and software for embedded computing systems. Students work on an existing project of their own or join one of these projects. Syllabus topics will be determined by the needs of the enrolled students and projects. Examples of topics include: interrupts and concurrent programming, deterministic timing and synchronization, state-based programming models, filters, frequency response, and high-frequency signals, low power operation, system and PCB design, security, and networked communication. Prerequisite: CS107 (or equivalent).
EE290A | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290A | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Kittiwanich, M. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290B | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290B | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Kittiwanich, M. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290C | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290C | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Kittiwanich, M. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290D | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290D | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Kittiwanich, M. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE292E | Image Systems Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292E | instructors:Farrell, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:Seminar. For engineering students interested in camera and display engineering, computer vision, and computational imaging. Speakers include Stanford faculty and research scientists as well as industry professionals, mostly from consumer electronics companies.
EE292H | Engineering, Entrepreneurship & Climate Change | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292H | instructors:Field, L. (PI) description:The purpose of this seminar series course is to help students and professionals develop the tools to apply the engineering and entrepreneurial mindset to problems that stem from climate change, in order to consider and evaluate possible stabilizing, remedial and adaptive approaches. This course is not a crash course on climate change or policy. Instead we will focus on learning about and discussing the climate problems that seem most tractable to these approaches. Each week Dr. Field and/or a guest speaker will lead a short warm-up discussion/activity and then deliver a talk in his/her area of expertise. We¿ll wrap up with small-group and full-class discussions of related challenges/opportunities and possible engineering-oriented solutions.nClass members are asked to do background reading before each class, to submit a question before each lecture, and to do in-class brainstorming. May be repeated for credit.
EE292I | Insanely Great Products: How do they get built? | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292I | instructors:Obershaw, D. (PI) description:Great products emerge from a sometimes conflict-laden process of collaboration between different functions within companies. This Seminar seeks to demystify this process via case-studies of successful products and companies. Engineering management and businesspeople will share their experiences in discussion with students. Previous companies profiled: Apple, Intel, Facebook, and Genentech -- to name a few. Previous guests include: Jon Rubinstein (NeXT, Apple, Palm), Diane Greene (VMware), and Ted Hoff (Intel). Pre-requisites: None
EE292T | SmartGrids and Advanced Power Systems Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292T | instructors:Rajagopal, R. (PI) description:A series of seminar and lectures focused on power engineering. Renowned researchers from universities and national labs will deliver bi-weekly seminars on the state of the art of power system engineering. Seminar topics may include: power system analysis and simulation, control and stability, new market mechanisms, computation challenges and solutions, detection and estimation, and the role of communications in the grid. The instructors will cover relevant background materials in the in-between weeks. The seminars are planned to continue throughout the next academic year, so the course may be repeated for credit.
EE293A | Solar Cells, Fuel Cells, and Batteries: Materials for the Energy Solution | http://EE293A.stanford.edu | instructors:Clemens, B. (PI) description:Operating principles and applications of emerging technological solutions to the energy demands of the world. The scale of global energy usage and requirements for possible solutions. Basic physics and chemistry of solar cells, fuel cells, and batteries. Performance issues, including economics, from the ideal device to the installed system. The promise of materials research for providing next generation solutions. Undergraduates register in 156 for 4 units; graduates register in 256 for 3 units.
EE293B | Fundamentals of Energy Processes | http://EE293B.stanford.edu | instructors:Brandt, A. (PI); Horne, R. (PI); Kovscek, A. (PI) description:For seniors and graduate students. Covers scientific and engineering fundamentals of renewable energy processes involving heat.  Thermodynamics, heat engines, solar thermal, geothermal, biomass. Recommended: MATH 19-21, or Math 41,42; PHYSICS 41, 43, 45
EE300 | Master's Thesis and Thesis Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE300 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Chidsey, C. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Eshleman, V. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kailath, T. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Luckham, D. (PI); Macovski, A. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a department faculty. Written thesis required for final letter grade. The continuing grade 'N' is given in quarters prior to thesis submission. See 390 if a letter grade is not appropriate. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE303 | Autonomous Implantable Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE303 | instructors:Poon, A. (PI) description:Integrating electronics with sensing, stimulation, and locomotion capabilities into the body will allow us to restore or enhance physiological functions.  In order to be able to insert these electronics into the body, energy source is a major obstacle.  This course focuses on the analysis and design of wirelessly powered catheter-deliverable electronics.  Emphases will be on the interaction between human and electromagnetic fields in order to transfer power to the embedded electronics via electromagnetic fields, power harvesting circuitry, electrical-tissue interface, and sensing and actuating frontend designs.  Prerequisites: EE 252 or equivalent.
EE308 | Advanced Circuit Techniques | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE308 | instructors:Lee, T. (PI); Buckmaster, G. (TA) description:Design of advanced analog circuits at the system level, including switching power converters, amplitude-stabilized and frequency-stabilized oscillators, voltage references and regulators, power amplifiers and buffers, sample-and-hold circuits, and application-specific op-amp compensation. Approaches for finding creative design solutions to problems with difficult specifications and hard requirements. Emphasis on feedback circuit techniques, design-oriented thinking, and hands-on experience with modern analog building blocks.  Several designs will be built and evaluated, along with associated laboratory projects. Prerequisite: EE 251 or EE 314A.
EE310 | SystemX: Ubiquitous Sensing, Computing and Communication Seminar | http://EE310.stanford.edu | instructors:Bahr, R. (PI) description:This is a seminar course with invited speakers. Sponsored by Stanford's SystemX Alliance, the talks will cover emerging topics in contemporary hardware/software systems design. Special focus will be given to the key building blocks of sensors, processing elements and wired/wireless communications, as well as their foundations in semiconductor technology, SoC construction, and physical assembly as informed by the SystemX Focus Areas.  The seminar will draw upon distinguished engineering speakers from both industry and academia who are involved at all levels of the technology stack and the applications that are now becoming possible. May be repeat for credit
EE311 | Advanced Integrated Circuits Technology | http://EE311.stanford.edu | instructors:Saraswat, K. (PI) description:What are the practical and fundamental limits to the evolution of the technology of modern MOS devices and interconnects? How are modern devices and circuits fabricated and what future changes are likely? Advanced techniques and models of MOS devices and back-end (interconnect and contact) processing. What are future device structures and materials to maintain progress in integrated electronics? MOS front-end and back-end process integration. Prerequisites: EE212, EE216 or equivalent.
EE312 | Integrated Circuit Fabrication Laboratory | http://EE312.stanford.edu | instructors:Saraswat, K. (PI); Hou, M. (TA); Xue, M. (TA) description:Formerly EE 410. Fabrication, simulation, and testing of a  submicron CMOS process. Practical aspects of IC fabrication including silicon wafer cleaning, photolithography, etching, oxidation, diffusion, ion implantation, chemical vapor deposition, physical sputtering, and electrical testing. Students also simulate the CMOS process using process simulator TSUPREM4 of the structures and electrical parameters that should result from the process flow. Taught in the Stanford Nanofabrication Facility (SNF). Preference to students pursuing doctoral research program requiring SNF facilities. Enrollment limited to 20. Prerequisites: EE 212, EE 216, consent of instructor.
EE314A | RF Integrated Circuit Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE314A | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI) description:Design of RF integrated circuits for communications systems, primarily in CMOS. Topics: the design of matching networks and low-noise amplifiers at RF, mixers, modulators, and demodulators; review of classical control concepts necessary for oscillator design including PLLs and PLL-based frequency synthesizers. Design of low phase noise oscillators. Design of high-efficiency (e.g., class E, F) RF power amplifiers, coupling networks. Behavior and modeling of passive and active components at RF. Narrowband and broadband amplifiers; noise and distortion measures and mitigation methods. Overview of transceiver architectures. Prerequisite: EE214B.
EE315 | Analog-Digital Interface Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE315 | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI); Weinreich, S. (TA) description:Analysis and design of circuits and circuit architectures for signal conditioning and data conversion. Fundamental circuit elements such as operational transconductance amplifiers, active filters, sampling circuits, switched capacitor stages and voltage comparators. Sensor interfaces for micro-electromechanical and biomedical applications. Nyquist and oversampling A/D and D/A converters. Prerequisite: EE 214B.
EE316 | Advanced VLSI Devices | http://EE316.stanford.edu | instructors:Wong, H. (PI); Li, L. (TA) description:In modern VLSI technologies, device electrical characteristics are sensitive to structural details and therefore to fabrication techniques. How are advanced VLSI devices designed and what future changes are likely? What are the implications for device electrical performance caused by fabrication techniques? Physical models for nanometer scale structures, control of electrical characteristics (threshold voltage, short channel effects, ballistic transport) in small structures, and alternative device structures for VLSI. Prerequisites: 212 and 216, or equivalent.
EE320 | Nanoelectronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE320 | instructors:Magyari-Kope, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Wong, H. (PI) description:This course covers the device physics and operation principles of nanoelectric devices, with a focus on devices for energy-efficient computation. Topics covered include devices based on new nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes, semiconductor nanowires, and 2D layered materials such as graphene; non-FET based devices such as nanoelectromechanical (NEM) relay, single electron transistors (SET) and resonant tunneling diodes (RTD); as well as FET-based devices such as tunnel FET.  Devices targeted for both logic and memory applications are covered. Prerequisites: Undergraduate device physics, EE222, EE216, EE316. Recommended courses: EE223, EE228, EE311.
EE323 | Energy in Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE323 | instructors:Pop, E. (PI); Lian, F. (TA); Xu, L. (TA) description:EE 323 examines energy in modern nanoelectronics, from fundamentals to systems. Fundamental topics include energy storage and transfer via electrons and phonons, ballistic limits of current and heat, meso- to macroscale mobility and thermal conductivity. Applied topics include power in nanoscale devices (1D nanotubes and nanowires, 2D materials, 3D silicon CMOS, resistive memory and interconnects), circuit leakage, temperature measurements, thermoelectric energy conversion, and thermal challenges in densely integrated systems. Basic knowledge of semiconductors, transistors, and Matlab (or similar) are recommended.
EE327 | Properties of Semiconductor Materials | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE327 | instructors:Harris, J. (PI) description:Modern semiconductor devices and integrated circuits are based on unique energy band, carrier transport, and optical properties of semiconductor materials. How to choose these properties for operation of semiconductor devices. Emphasis is on quantum mechanical foundations of the properties of solids, energy bandgap engineering, semi-classical transport theory, semi-conductor statistics, carrier scattering, electro-magneto transport effects, high field ballistic transport, Boltzmann transport equation, quantum mechanical transitions, optical absorption, and radiative and non-radiative recombination that are the foundations of modern transistors and optoelectronic devices. Prerequisites: EE216 or equivalent.
EE336 | Nanophotonics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE336 | instructors:Brongersma, M. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Xu, S. (TA) description:Recent developments in micro- and nanophotonic materials and devices. Basic concepts of photonic crystals. Integrated photonic circuits. Photonic crystal fibers. Superprism effects. Optical properties of metallic nanostructures. Sub-wavelength phenomena and plasmonic excitations. Meta-materials. Prerequisite: Electromagnetic theory at the level of 242.
EE340 | Optical Micro- and Nano-Cavities | http://EE340.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Optical micro- and nano-cavities and their device applications. Types of optical cavities (microdisks, microspheres, photonic crystal cavities, plasmonic cavities), and their electromagnetic properties, design, and fabrication techniques. Cavity quantum electrodynamics: strong and weak-coupling regime, Purcell factor, spontaneous emission control. Applications of optical cavities, including low-threshold lasers, optical modulators, quantum information processing devices, and bio-chemical sensors. Prerequisites: Advanced undergraduate or basic graduate level knowledge of electromagnetics, quantum.
EE346 | Introduction to Nonlinear Optics | http://EE346.stanford.edu | instructors:Fejer, M. (PI); Jankowski, M. (TA) description:Wave propagation in anisotropic, nonlinear, and time-varying media. Microscopic and macroscopic description of electric-dipole susceptibilities. Free and forced waves; phase matching; slowly varying envelope approximation; dispersion, diffraction, space-time analogy. Harmonic generation; frequency conversion; parametric amplification and oscillation; electro-optic light modulation. Raman and Brillouin scattering; nonlinear processes in optical fibers.  Prerequisites: 242, 236C.
EE349 | Advanced Topics in Nano-Optics and Plasmonics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE349 | instructors:Fan, J. (PI) description:Electromagnetic phenomena at the nanoscale.  Dipolar interactions between emitters and nanostructures, weak and strong coupling, surface plasmon polaritons and localized plasmons, electromagnetic field enhancements, and near-field coupling between metallic nanostructures.  Numerical tools will be taught and used to simulate nano-optical phenomena. Prerequisite: EE 242 or equivalent.
EE356A | Resonant Converters | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE356A | instructors: description:Miniaturization of efficient power converters remain a challenge in power electronics whose goal is to improving energy use and reducing waste.nIn this course, we will study the design of Resonant converters which are capable of operating at higher frequencies than their 'hard-switch' counterparts. Resonant converter are found in high performance applications where high control bandwidth and high power density are required. We will also explore practical design issues and trade off in selecting converter topologies in high performance applications. Prerequisites: EE153/EE253.
EE359 | Wireless Communications | http://EE359.stanford.edu | instructors:Goldsmith, A. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Rao, M. (TA) description:This course will cover advanced topics in wireless communications for voice, data, and multimedia. Topics include: an overview of current and future wireless systems; wireless channel models including path loss, shadowing, and statistical multipath channel models; fundamental capacity limits of wireless channels; digital modulation and its performance in fading and intersymbol interference; techniques to combat fading including adaptive modulation, diversity, and multiple antenna systems (MIMO); techniques to combat intersymbol interference including equalization,  multicarrier modulation (OFDM), and spread spectrum; and an overview of wireless network design. Prerequisite: 279 or instructor consent.
EE364A | Convex Optimization I | http://EE364A.stanford.edu | instructors:Boyd, S. (PI) videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/convex-optimization-i/id495052530 description:Convex sets, functions, and optimization problems. The basics of convex analysis and theory of convex programming: optimality conditions, duality theory, theorems of alternative, and applications. Least-squares, linear and quadratic programs, semidefinite programming, and geometric programming. Numerical algorithms for smooth and equality constrained problems; interior-point methods for inequality constrained problems. Applications to signal processing, communications, control, analog and digital circuit design, computational geometry, statistics, machine learning, and mechanical engineering. Prerequisite: linear algebra such as EE263, basic probability.
EE367 | Computational Imaging and Display | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE367 | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI); Liba, O. (TA); Ruban, T. (TA) description:Spawned by rapid advances in optical fabrication and digital processing power, a new generation of imaging technology is emerging: computational cameras at the convergence of applied mathematics, optics, and high-performance computing. Similar trends are observed for modern displays pushing the boundaries of resolution, contrast, 3D capabilities, and immersive experiences through the co-design of optics, electronics, and computation. This course serves as an introduction to the emerging field of computational imaging and displays. Students will learn to master bits and photons.
EE368 | Digital Image Processing | http://EE368.stanford.edu | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI); Boin, J. (TA); Tilak, H. (TA) description:Image sampling and quantization color, point operations, segmentation, morphological image processing, linear image filtering and correlation, image transforms, eigenimages, multiresolution image processing, noise reduction and restoration, feature extraction and recognition tasks, image registration. Emphasis is on the general principles of image processing. Students learn to apply material by implementing and investigating image processing algorithms in Matlab and optionally on Android mobile devices. Term project. Recommended: EE261, EE278.
EE369A | Medical Imaging Systems I | http://EE369A.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI); Dwork, N. (TA) description:Imaging internal structures within the body using high-energy radiation studied from a systems viewpoint. Modalities covered: x-ray, computed tomography, and nuclear medicine. Analysis of existing and proposed systems in terms of resolution, frequency response, detection sensitivity, noise, and potential for improved diagnosis. Prerequisite: EE 261
EE369B | Medical Imaging Systems II | http://EE369B.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Imaging internal structures within the body using non-ionizing radiation studied from a systems viewpoint. Modalities include ultrasound and magnetic resonance. Analysis of ultrasonic systems including diffraction and noise. Analysis of magnetic resonance systems including physics, Fourier properties of image formation, and noise. Prerequisite: EE 261
EE373A | Adaptive Signal Processing | http://EE373A.stanford.edu | instructors:Widrow, B. (PI); Krause Perin, J. (TA) description:Learning algorithms for adaptive digital filters. Self-optimization. Wiener filter theory. Quadratic performance functions, their eigenvectors and eigenvalues. Speed of convergence. Asymptotic performance versus convergence rate. Applications of adaptive filters to statistical prediction, process modeling, adaptive noise canceling, adaptive antenna arrays, adaptive inverse control, and equalization and echo canceling in modems. Artificial neural networks. Cognitive memory/human and machine. Natural and artificial synapses. Hebbian learning. The Hebbian-LMS algorithm. Theoretical and experimental research projects in adaptive filter theory, communications, audio systems, and neural networks. Biomedical research projects, supervised jointly by EE and Medical School faculty. Recommended: EE263, EE264, EE278.
EE376A | Information Theory | http://EE376A.stanford.edu | instructors:Tse, D. (PI); Bagaria, V. (TA); Farnia, F. (TA) description:The fundamental ideas of information theory. Entropy and intrinsic randomness. Data compression to the entropy limit. Huffman coding. Arithmetic coding. Channel capacity, the communication limit. Gaussian channels. Kolmogorov complexity. Asymptotic equipartition property. Information theory and Kelly gambling. Applications to communication and data compression. Prerequisite: EE178 or STATS 116, or equivalent.
EE376C | Universal Schemes in Information Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE376C | instructors:Weissman, T. (PI) description:Universal schemes for lossless and lossy compression, channel coding and decoding, prediction, denoising, and filtering. Characterization of performance limitations in the stochastic settting: entropy rate, rate-distortion function, channel capacity, Bayes envelope for prediction, denoising, and filtering. Lempel-Ziv lossless compression, and Lempel-Ziv based schemes for lossy compression, channel coding, prediction, and filtering. Discrete universal denoising. Compression-based approach to denoising. The compound decision problem. Prerequisites: EE376A.
EE376D | Wireless Information Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE376D | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI) description:Information theory forms the basis for the design of all modern day communication systems. The original theory was primarily point-to-point, studying how fast information can flow across an isolated noisy communication channel. Until recently, there has been only limited success in extending the theory to a network of interacting nodes. Progress has been made in the past decade driven by engineering interest in wireless networks. The course provides a unified overview of this recent progress made in information theory of wireless networks. Starting with an overview of the capacity of fading and multiple-antenna wireless channels, we aim to answer questions such as: What is the optimal way for users to cooperate and exchange information in a wireless network? How much benefit can optimal cooperation provide over traditional communication architectures? How can cooperation help to deal with interference between multiple wireless transmissions?  Formerly EE361. Prerequisites: EE376A
EE378A | Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE378A.stanford.edu | instructors:Weissman, T. (PI) description:Random signals in electrical engineering. Discrete-time random processes: stationarity and ergodicity, covariance sequences, power spectral density, parametric models for stationary processes. Fundamentals of linear estimation: minimum mean squared error estimation, optimum linear estimation, orthogonality principle, the Wold decomposition. Causal linear estimation of stationary processes: the causal Wiener filter, Kalman filtering. Parameter estimation: criteria of goodness of estimators, Fisher information, Cramer-Rao inequality, Chapman-Robbins inequality, maximum likelihood estimation, method of moments, consistency, efficiency. ARMA parameter estimation: Yule-Walker equations, Levinson-Durbin algorithm, least squares estimation, moving average parameter estimation, modified Yule-Walker method for model order selection. Spectrum estimation: sample covariances, covariance estimation, Bartlett formula, periodogram, periodogram averaging, windowed periodograms. Prerequisites: EE 278
EE378B | Inference, Estimation, and Information Processing | http://EE378B.stanford.edu | instructors:Montanari, A. (PI); Mei, S. (TA) description:Techniques and models for signal, data and information processing, with emphasis on incomplete data, non-ordered index sets and robust low-complexity methods. Linear models; regularization and shrinkage; dimensionality reduction; streaming algorithms; sketching; clustering, search in high dimension; low-rank models; principal component analysis.nnApplications include: positioning from pairwise distances; distributed sensing; measurement/traffic monitoring in networks; finding communities/clusters in networks; recommendation systems; inverse problems.	Prerequisites: EE278 and EE263 or equivalent. Recommended but not required: EE378A
EE379 | Digital Communication | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE379 | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI); Gu, R. (TA) description:Modulation: linear, differential and orthogonal methods; signal spaces; power spectra; bandwidth requirements. Detection: maximum likelihood and maximum a posteriori probability principles; sufficient statistics; correlation and matched-filter receivers; coherent, differentially coherent and noncoherent methods; error probabilities; comparison of modulation and detection methods. Intersymbol interference: single-carrier channel model; Nyquist requirement; whitened matched filter; maximum likelihood sequence detection; Viterbi algorithm; linear equalization; decision-feedback equalization. Multi-carrier modulation: orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing; capacity of parallel Gaussian channels; comparison of single- and multi-carrier techniques.  Prerequisite: EE102B, EE278
EE380 | Colloquium on Computer Systems | http://EE380.stanford.edu | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Freeman, A. (PI) description:Live presentations of current research in the design, implementation, analysis, and applications of computer systems. Topics range over a wide range and are different every quarter. Topics may include fundamental science, mathematics, cryptography, device physics, integrated circuits, computer architecture, programming, programming languages, optimization, applications, simulation, graphics, social implications, venture capital, patent and copyright law, networks, computer security, and other topics of related to computer systems. May be repeated for credit.
EE382A | Parallel Processors Beyond Multicore Processing | http://EE382A.stanford.edu | instructors:Di Blas, A. (PI) description:Formerly EE392Q. The current parallel computing research emphasizes multi-cores, but there are alterna-tive array processors with significant potential. This hands-on course focuses on SIMD (Single-Instruction, Multiple-Data) massively parallel processors. Topics: Flynn's Taxonomy, parallel architectures, Kestrel architecture and simulator, principles of SIMD programming, parallel sorting with sorting networks, string comparison with dynamic programming (edit distance, Smith-Waterman), arbitrary-precision operations with fixed-point numbers, reductions, vector and matrix multiplication, image processing algo-rithms, asynchronous algorithms on SIMD ("SIMD Phase Programming Model"), Man-delbrot set, analysis of parallel performance.
EE384A | Internet Routing Protocols and Standards | http://EE384A.stanford.edu | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Local area networks addressing and switching; IEEE 802.1 bridging protocols (transparent bridging, virtual LANs). Internet routing protocols:  interior gateways (RIP, OSPF) and exterior gateways (BGP); multicast routing; multiprotocol label switching (MPLS). Routing in mobile networks: Mobile IP, Mobile Ad Hoc Networks (MANET), Wireless Mesh Networks. Prerequisite: EE 284 or CS 144.
EE384B | Multimedia Communication over the Internet | http://EE384B.stanford.edu | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Applications and requirements. Traffic generation and characterization: voice encoding (G.711, G.729, G.723); image and video compression (JPEG, H.261, MPEG-2, H.263, H.264), TCP data traffic. Quality impairments and measures. Networking technologies: LAN technologies; home broadband services (ADSL, cable modems, PONs); and wireless LANs (802.11). Network protocols for multimedia applications: resource reservation (ST2+, RSVP); differentiated services (DiffServ); and real-time transport protocol (RTP, RTCP). Audio-video-data conferencing standards: Internet architecture (SDP, SAP, SIP); ITU recommendations (H.320, H.323 and T.120); and real-time streaming protocol (RTSP). Emphasis will be placed on advances in network infrastructure and new services (VoIP, IPTV, Peer-to-peer communications, etc.) Prerequisite: 284 or CS 144. Recommended: 384A.
EE384E | Networked Wireless Systems | http://EE384E.stanford.edu | instructors:Katti, S. (PI) description:Design and implementation of wireless networks and mobile systems. The course will commence with a short retrospective of wireless communication and initially touch on some of the fundamental physical layer properties of various wireless communication technologies. The focus will then shift to design of media access control and routing layers for various wireless systems. The course will also examine adaptations necessary at transport and higher layers to cope with node mobility and error-prone nature of the wireless medium. Finally, it will conclude with a brief overview of other related issues including emerging wireless/mobile applications. Prerequisites: EE 284
EE384S | Performance Engineering of Computer Systems & Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE384S | instructors:Bambos, N. (PI) description:Modeling and control methodologies for high-performance network engineering, including: Markov chains and stochastic modeling, queueing networks and congestion management, dynamic programming and task/processor scheduling, network dimensioning and optimization, and simulation methods. Applications for design of high-performance architectures for wireline/wireless networks and the Internet, including: traffic modeling, admission and congestion control, quality of service support, power control in wireless networks, packet scheduling in switches, video streaming over wireless links, and virus/worm propagation dynamics and countermeasures. Enrollment limited to 30. Prerequisites: basic networking technologies and probability.
EE385A | Robust and Testable Systems Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE385A | instructors:Mitra, S. (PI) description:Student/faculty discussions of research problems in the design of reliable digital systems. Areas: fault-tolerant systems, design for testability, production testing, and system reliability. Emphasis is on student presentations and Ph.D. thesis research. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
EE387 | Error Correcting Codes: Theory and Applications | http://EE387.stanford.edu | instructors:Wootters, M. (PI); Deligiannis, P. (TA) description:Introduction to the theory of error correcting codes, emphasizing diverse applications throughout computer science and engineering. Topics include basic bounds on error correcting codes; constructions like Reed-Solomon, Reed-Muller, and expander codes; list-decoding, list-recovery and locality. Applications include communication, storage, complexity theory, pseudorandomness, cryptography, streaming algorithms, group testing, and com-pressed sensing.  Prerequisites: Linear algebra, basic probability (at the level of, say, CS109, CME106 or EE178), and ¿mathematical maturity¿ (students will be asked to write proofs). Familiarity with finite fields will be helpful but not required.
EE390 | Special Studies or Projects in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE390 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Close, S. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dai, H. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Johari, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member. Individual or team activities may involve lab experimentation, design of devices or systems, or directed reading. May be repeated for credit.
EE391 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE391 | instructors:Abel, J. (PI); Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Bent, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Brongersma, M. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Close, S. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); Cui, Y. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lauben, D. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rajagopal, R. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Yang, D. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member; written report or written examination required. Letter grade given on the basis of the report; if not appropriate, student should enroll in 390. May be repeated for credit.
EE392AA | Advanced Digital Transmission | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392AA | instructors:Cioffi, J. (PI) description:This course will develop insights into fundamentals and design of state-of-the-art physical-layer transmission systems. Specific attention will be paid to transmission in non-ideal environments with limited spectra and spatial interference. A theory of parallel channels is used to develop multi-carrier methods, vector coding, and generalized decision-feedback approaches. Students will be expected to design and analyze performance of systems operating close to fundamental limits for a variety of practical channels, wireline or wireless.  Prerequisites: EE379 or equivalent; understanding of probability, random processes, digital signal processing (including basic matrix and nmatlab skills).
EE392B | Industrial Internet of Things | http://EE392B.stanford.edu | instructors:Gorinevsky, D. (PI); O'Neill, D. (PI) description:The seminar will feature guest lectures from the industry to discuss the state of the affairs in the Industrial Internet of Things (IoT) with emphasis on existing and new Data Science, analytics, and Big Data applications. The class will address several verticals. One of them is electrical power industry, which is undergoing transition to renewables and distributed generation. Another one is aerospace industry including airlines and equipment vendors. Other verticals are oil and gas, data centers, and semiconductor manufacturing.
EE392I | Seminar on Trends in Computing and Communications | http://EE392I.stanford.edu | instructors:Singh, J. (PI) description:Lectures series and invited talks on current trends in computing and communications, and ongoing initiatives for research and open innovation. This year's focus on evolving cloud computing architectures and their impact on the enterprise; big data trends and rise of the third platform; software as a service; wireless and cellular network architectures; mobility and mobile data proliferation; open mobile platforms (e.g. Android); multi-homed mobile networking, associated data communication and mobile resource trade-offs, and system implementation in smartphones and Android devices.
EE392K | Big Data and Learning Systems for Large-Scale Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392K | instructors:Prabhakar, B. (PI); Yin, Z. (TA) description:The course will consider data from sensors in large-scale networks such as Cloud Computing Systems and the Internet of Moving Things.  Methods for sensing, denoising the sensed data, and reconstructing the evolution of the network in  fine detail from snapshot observations will be discussed.  Techniques for synchronizing clocks across a large data center, and using machine learning to perform real-time inference at scale will be presented.  The principles of creating an interactive database for detecting anomalies, raising alerts, and serving insights to the user will be discussed.  The course will involve a team-based project. Required prerequisites: basic computer networks as in CS 144 or CS 244. Recommended: basic statistics or machine learning, as in EE 278 or CS 229.
EE392T | Seminar in Chip Test and Debug | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392T | instructors: description:Seminars by industry professionals in digital IC manufacturing test and silicon debug. Topics include yield and binsplit modeling, defect types and detection, debug hardware, physical analysis, and design for test/debug circuits. Case studies of silicon failures. Prerequisite: basic digital IC design (271 or 371).
EE400 | Thesis and Thesis Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE400 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dai, H. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McConnell, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:Limited to candidates for the degree of Engineer or Ph.D.May be repeated for credit.
EE402A | Topics in International Technology Management | http://EE402A.stanford.edu | instructors:Dasher, R. (PI) description:Theme for Autumn 2016 is New Approaches to Energy and Environment Challenges: Recent Developments in Asia.  Distinguished guest speakers from industry and governments present and discuss new initiatives in energy production and transmission, next generation transportation systems, water resource management, climate change remediation, etc. See syllabus for specific requirements, which may differ from those of other seminars at Stanford.
EE402T | Entrepreneurship in Asian High-Tech Industries | http://EE402T.stanford.edu | instructors:Dasher, R. (PI) description:Distinctive patterns and challenges of entrepreneurship in Asia; update of business and technology issues in the creation and growth of start-up companies in major Asian economies. Distinguished speakers from industry, government, and academia. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE42 | Introduction to Electromagnetics and Its Applications | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE42 | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Sapra, N. (TA); Zannos, A. (TA) description:Electricity and magnetism and its essential role in modern electrical engineering devices and systems, such as sensors, displays, DVD players, and optical communication systems. The topics that will be covered include electrostatics, magnetostatics, Maxwell's equations, one-dimensional wave equation, electromagnetic waves, transmission lines, and one-dimensional resonators. Pre-requisites: MATH 42 or MATH 51 or CME 100 or equivalent.
EE469B | RF Pulse Design for Magnetic Resonance Imaging | http://EE469B.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, J. (PI); Dwork, N. (TA) description:Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) based on the use of radio frequency pulses to manipulate magnetization. Analysis and design of major types of RF pulses in one and multiple dimensions, analysis and design of sequences of RF pulses for fast imaging, and use of RF pulses for the creation of image contrast in MRI. Prerequisite: 369B.
EE60N | Man versus Nature: Coping with Disasters Using Space Technology | http://EE60N.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI) description:Preference to freshman. Natural hazards, earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes, and fires, and how they affect people and society; great disasters such as asteroid impacts that periodically obliterate many species of life. Scientific issues, political and social consequences, costs of disaster mitigation, and how scientific knowledge affects policy. How spaceborne imaging technology makes it possible to respond quickly and mitigate consequences; how it is applied to natural disasters; and remote sensing data manipulation and analysis. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE65 | Modern Physics for Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE65 | instructors:Miller, D. (PI) description:This course introduces the core ideas of modern physics that enable applications ranging from solar energy and efficient lighting to the modern electronic and optical devices and nanotechnologies that sense, process, store, communicate and display all our information. Though the ideas have broad impact, the course is widely accessible to engineering and science students with only basic linear algebra and calculus through simple ordinary differential equations as mathematics background. Topics include the quantum mechanics of electrons and photons (Schrödinger's equation, atoms, electrons, energy levels and energy bands; absorption and emission of photons; quantum confinement in nanostructures), the statistical mechanics of particles (entropy, the Boltzmann factor, thermal distributions), the thermodynamics of light (thermal radiation, limits to light concentration, spontaneous and stimulated emission), and the physics of information (Maxwell¿s demon, reversibility, entropy and noise in physics and information theory).  Pre-requisite: Physics 41. Pre- or co-requisite: Math 53 or CME 102.
EE801 | TGR Project | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE801 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); Cui, Y. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:
EE802 | TGR Dissertation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE802 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bent, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Chichilnisky, E. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Eshleman, V. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kailath, T. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Luckham, D. (PI); Macovski, A. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McConnell, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); McNab, J. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rajagopal, R. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Xing, L. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:May be repeated for credit.
