6.0001 | Introduction to Computer Science Programming in Python | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-0001-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-in-python-fall-2016 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Interactive assessments, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: programming with examples prereq:none instructors:A. Bell, J. V. Guttag term:U (Fall, Spring; first half of term) description:Introduction to computer science and programming for students with little or no programming experience. Students develop skills to program and use computational techniques to solve problems. Topics include the notion of computation, Python, simple algorithms and data structures, testing and debugging, and algorithmic complexity.  Combination of 6.0001 and 6.0002 counts as REST subject. Final given in the seventh week of the term.  3-0-3 units
6.0002 | Introduction to Computational Thinking and Data Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-0002-introduction-to-computational-thinking-and-data-science-fall-2016 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: programming (no examples) prereq:6.0001 or permission of instructor instructors:A. Bell, J. V. Guttag term:U (Fall, Spring; second half of term) description:Provides an introduction to using computation to understand real-world phenomena. Topics include plotting, stochastic programs, probability and statistics, random walks, Monte Carlo simulations, modeling data, optimization problems, and clustering. Combination of 6.0001 and 6.0002 counts as REST subject.  3-0-3 units
6.002 | Circuits and Electronics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-002-circuits-and-electronics-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:physics ii (gir) coreq:2.087 or 18.03 instructors:J. H. Lang, T. Palacios, D. J. Perreault, J. Voldman term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Fundamentals of linear systems and abstraction modeling through lumped electronic circuits. Linear networks involving independent and dependent sources, resistors, capacitors and inductors. Extensions to include nonlinear resistors, switches, transistors, operational amplifiers and transducers. Dynamics of first- and second-order networks; design in the time and frequency domains; signal and energy processing applications. Design exercises. Weekly laboratory with microcontroller and transducers.  3-2-7 units. REST
6.003 | Signals and Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-003-signals-and-systems-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:calculus i (gir) and ( 6.0001 or 6.145 ) instructors:D. M. Freeman, A. Hartz term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Fundamentals of signal processing, focusing on the use of Fourier methods to analyze and process signals such as sounds and images. Topics include Fourier series, Fourier transforms, the Discrete Fourier Transform, sampling, convolution, deconvolution, filtering, noise reduction, and compression. Applications draw broadly from areas of contemporary interest with emphasis on both analysis and design.  6-0-6 units. REST
6.004 | Computation Structures | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-004-computation-structures-spring-2017 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments: programming with examples, Instructor insights prereq:physics ii (gir) and 6.0001 instructors:Arvind, S. Z. Hanono Wachman, D. Sanchez term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Provides an introduction to the design of digital systems and computer architecture. Emphasizes expressing all hardware designs in a high-level hardware language and synthesizing the designs. Topics include combinational and sequential circuits, instruction set abstraction for programmable hardware, single-cycle and pipelined processor implementations, multi-level memory hierarchies, virtual memory, exceptions and I/O, and parallel systems.  4-0-8 units. REST
6.006 | Introduction to Algorithms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-006-introduction-to-algorithms-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Assignments: programming with examples, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos prereq:6.042[j] and ( 6.0001 or coreq:6.009 ) instructors:E. Demaine, S. Devadas term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Introduction to mathematical modeling of computational problems, as well as common algorithms, algorithmic paradigms, and data structures used to solve these problems. Emphasizes the relationship between algorithms and programming, and introduces basic performance measures and analysis techniques for these problems.  4-0-8 units
6.008 | Introduction to Inference |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) or permission of instructor instructors:P. Golland, G. W. Wornell term:U (Fall) description:Introduces probabilistic modeling for problems of inference and machine learning from data, emphasizing analytical and computational aspects. Distributions, marginalization, conditioning, and structure, including graphical and neural network representations. Belief propagation, decision-making, classification, estimation, and prediction. Sampling methods and analysis. Introduces asymptotic analysis and information measures. Computational laboratory component explores the concepts introduced in class in the context of contemporary applications. Students design inference algorithms, investigate their behavior on real data, and discuss experimental results.  4-4-4 units. Institute LAB
6.009 | Fundamentals of Programming |  | prereq:6.0001 or 6.145 instructors:D. S. Boning, A. Chlipala, S. Devadas, A. Hartz term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Introduces fundamental concepts of programming. Designed to develop skills in applying basic methods from programming languages to abstract problems. Topics include programming and Python basics, computational concepts, software engineering, algorithmic techniques, data types, and recursion.  Lab component consists of software design, construction, and implementation of design.  2-4-6 units. Institute LAB
6.01 | Introduction to EECS via Robotics |  | prereq:6.0001 6.145 or permission of instructor instructors:D. M. Freeman, A. Hartz, L. P. Kaelbling, T. Lozano-Perez term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:An integrated introduction to electrical engineering and computer science, taught using substantial laboratory experiments with mobile robots. Key issues in the design of engineered artifacts operating in the natural world: measuring and modeling system behaviors; assessing errors in sensors and effectors; specifying tasks; designing solutions based on analytical and computational models; planning, executing, and evaluating experimental tests of performance; refining models and designs. Issues addressed in the context of computer programs, control systems, probabilistic inference problems, circuits and transducers, which all play important roles in achieving robust operation of a large variety of engineered systems.  2-4-6 units. Institute LAB
6.011 | Signals, Systems and Inference | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-011-signals-systems-and-inference-spring-2018 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights prereq:6.003 and ( 6.008 6.041 or 18.600 ) instructors:A. V. Oppenheim, G. C. Verghese term:U (Spring) description:Covers signals, systems and inference in communication, control and signal processing. Topics include input-output and state-space models of linear systems driven by deterministic and random signals; time- and transform-domain representations in discrete and continuous time; and group delay. State feedback and observers. Probabilistic models; stochastic processes, correlation functions, power spectra, spectral factorization. Least-mean square error estimation; Wiener filtering. Hypothesis testing; detection; matched filters.  4-0-8 units
6.012 | Nanoelectronics and Computing Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-012-microelectronic-devices-and-circuits-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: design (no examples), Exams and solutions prereq:6.002 instructors:A. I. Akinwande, J. Kong, T. Palacios, M. Shulaker term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Studies interaction between materials, semiconductor physics, electronic devices, and computing systems. Develops intuition of how transistors operate. Topics range from introductory semiconductor physics to modern state-of-the-art nano-scale devices. Considers how innovations in devices have driven historical progress in computing, and explores ideas for further improvements in devices and computing. Students apply material to understand how building improved computing systems requires knowledge of devices, and how making the correct device requires knowledge of computing systems. Includes a design project for practical application of concepts, and labs for experience building silicon transistors and devices.  4-0-8 units
6.013 | Electromagnetics and Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-013-electromagnetics-and-applications-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate features:Demonstration - video, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:calculus ii (gir) and physics ii (gir) instructors:L. Daniel, M. R. Watts term:U (Spring) description:Analysis and design of modern applications that employ electromagnetic phenomena for signals and power transmission in RF, microwaves, optical and wireless communication systems. Fundamentals include dynamic solutions for Maxwell's equations; electromagnetic power and energy, waves in media, metallic and dielectric waveguides, radiation, and diffraction; resonance; filters; and acoustic analogs. Labs activities range from building to testing of devices and systems (e.g., antenna arrays, radars, dielectric waveguides). Students work in teams on self-proposed maker-style design projects with a focus on fostering creativity, teamwork, and debugging skills. 6.002 and 6.003 are recommended but not required.  3-5-4 units
6.014 | Electromagnetic Fields, Forces and Motion |  | prereq:physics ii (gir) and 18.03 instructors:J. L. Kirtley, Jr., J. H. Lang term:U (Fall) description:Study of electromagnetics and electromagnetic energy conversion leading to an understanding of devices, including electromagnetic sensors, actuators, motors and generators. Quasistatic Maxwell's equations and the Lorentz force law. Studies of the quasistatic fields and their sources through solutions of Poisson's and Laplace's equations. Boundary conditions and multi-region boundary-value problems. Steady-state conduction, polarization, and magnetization. Charge conservation and relaxation, and magnetic induction and diffusion. Extension to moving materials. Electric and magnetic forces and force densities derived from energy, and stress tensors. Extensive use of engineering examples. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.640 3-0-9 units
6.02 | Introduction to EECS via Communication Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-02-introduction-to-eecs-ii-digital-communication-systems-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.0001 instructors:K. LaCurts term:U (Fall) description:Studies key concepts, systems, and algorithms to reliably communicate data in settings ranging from the cellular phone network and the Internet to deep space. Weekly laboratory experiments explore these areas in depth. Topics presented in three modules - bits, signals, and packets - spanning the multiple layers of a communication system. Bits module includes information, entropy, data compression algorithms, and error correction with block and convolutional codes. Signals module includes modeling physical channels and noise, signal design, filtering and detection, modulation, and frequency-division multiplexing. Packets module includes switching and queuing principles, media access control, routing protocols, and data transport protocols.  4-4-4 units. Institute LAB
6.021 | Cellular Neurophysiology and Computing |  | prereq:( physics ii (gir) 18.03 and ( 2.005 6.002 6.003 10.301 or 20.110[j] )) or permission of instructor instructors:J. Han, T. Heldt term:U (Fall) description:Integrated overview of the biophysics of cells from prokaryotes to neurons, with a focus on mass transport and electrical signal generation across cell membrane. First third of course focuses on mass transport through membranes: diffusion, osmosis, chemically mediated, and active transport. Second third focuses on electrical properties of cells: ion transport to action potential generation and propagation in electrically excitable cells. Synaptic transmission. Electrical properties interpreted via kinetic and molecular properties of single voltage-gated ion channels. Final third focuses on biophysics of synaptic transmission and introduction to neural computing. Laboratory and computer exercises illustrate the concepts. Students taking graduate version complete different assignments. Preference to juniors and seniors. Same subject as 2.791[J] , 9.21[J] , 20.370[J] Subject meets with 2.794[J] , 6.521[J] , 9.021[J] , 20.470[J] , HST.541[J] 5-2-5 units
6.022 | Quantitative and Clinical Physiology |  | prereq:physics ii (gir) 18.03 or permission of instructor instructors:T. Heldt, R. G. Mark term:U (Spring) description:Application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. Anatomical, physiological and clinical features of the cardiovascular, respiratory and renal systems. Mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. Systems, features and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences and engineering models. Required laboratory work includes animal studies. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Same subject as 2.792[J] , HST.542[J] Subject meets with 2.796[J] , 6.522[J] 4-2-6 units
6.023 | Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems |  | prereq:physics ii (gir) and ( 2.005 6.021[j] or permission of instructor) coreq:20.309[j] instructors:J. Han, S. Manalis term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 20.330[J] . Same subject as 2.793[J] , 20.330[J] 4-0-8 units
6.024 | Molecular, Cellular, and Tissue Biomechanics |  | prereq:biology (gir) ( 2.370 or 20.110[j] ) and ( 3.016b or 18.03 ) instructors:M. Bathe, A. Grodzinsky term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 20.310[J] . Same subject as 2.797[J] , 3.053[J] , 20.310[J] 4-0-8 units
6.025 | Medical Device Design |  | prereq:2.008 6.101 6.111 6.115 22.071 or permission of instructor instructors:A. H. Slocum, G. Hom, E. Roche, N. C. Hanumara term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject 2.750[J] . Enrollment limited. Same subject as 2.750[J] Subject meets with 2.75[J] , 6.525[J] , HST.552[J] 3-0-9 units
6.026 | Biomedical Signal and Image Processing |  | prereq:( 6.041 or permission of instructor) and ( 2.004 6.003 16.002 or 18.085 ) instructors:J. Greenberg, E. Adalsteinsson, W. Wells term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject HST.482[J] . Same subject as HST.482[J] Subject meets with 6.555[J] , 16.456[J] , HST.582[J] 3-3-6 units
6.027 | Biomolecular Feedback Systems |  | prereq:biology (gir) 18.03 or permission of instructor instructors:D. Del Vecchio term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 2.180[J] . Same subject as 2.180[J] Subject meets with 2.18[J] , 6.557[J] 3-0-9 units
6.03 | Introduction to EECS via Medical Technology |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) and physics ii (gir) instructors:C. M. Stultz, E. Adalsteinsson term:U (Spring) description:Explores biomedical signals generated from electrocardiograms, glucose detectors or ultrasound images, and magnetic resonance images. Topics include physical characterization and modeling of systems in the time and frequency domains; analog and digital signals and noise; basic machine learning including decision trees, clustering, and classification; and introductory machine vision. Labs designed to strengthen background in signal processing and machine learning. Students design and run structured experiments, and develop and test procedures through further experimentation.  4-4-4 units. Institute LAB
6.031 | Elements of Software Construction |  | prereq:6.009 instructors:M. Goldman, R. C. Miller term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Introduces fundamental principles and techniques of software development: how to write software that is safe from bugs, easy to understand, and ready for change. Topics include specifications and invariants; testing, test-case generation, and coverage; abstract data types and representation independence; design patterns for object-oriented programming; concurrent programming, including message passing and shared memory concurrency, and defending against races and deadlock; and functional programming with immutable data and higher-order functions. Includes weekly programming exercises and larger group programming projects.  5-0-10 units
6.033 | Computer Systems Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-033-computer-system-engineering-spring-2018 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments: written (no examples), Instructor insights, Resource Index prereq:6.004 and 6.009 instructors:K. LaCurts term:U (Spring) description:Topics on the engineering of computer software and hardware systems: techniques for controlling complexity; strong modularity using client-server design, operating systems; performance, networks; naming; security and privacy; fault-tolerant systems, atomicity and coordination of concurrent activities, and recovery; impact of computer systems on society. Case studies of working systems and readings from the current literature provide comparisons and contrasts. Includes a single, semester-long design project. Students engage in extensive written communication exercises. Enrollment may be limited.  5-1-6 units
6.034 | Artificial Intelligence | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-034-artificial-intelligence-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams (no solutions), Recitation videos, Instructor insights prereq:6.0001 instructors:P. H. Winston term:U (Fall) description:Introduces representations, methods, and architectures used to build applications and to account for human intelligence from a computational point of view. Covers applications of rule chaining, constraint propagation, constrained search, inheritance, statistical inference, and other problem-solving paradigms. Also addresses applications of identification trees, neural nets, genetic algorithms, support-vector machines, boosting, and other learning paradigms. Considers what separates human intelligence from that of other animals. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.844 4-3-5 units
6.035 | Computer Language Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-035-computer-language-engineering-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Exams and solutions prereq:6.004 and 6.031 instructors:M. C. Rinard term:U (Fall) description:Analyzes issues associated with the implementation of higher-level programming languages. Fundamental concepts, functions, and structures of compilers. The interaction of theory and practice. Using tools in building software. Includes a multi-person project on compiler design and implementation.  4-4-4 units
6.036 | Introduction to Machine Learning |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) and ( 6.0001 or 6.01 ) instructors:R. Barzilay, T. Jaakkola, L. P. Kaelbling term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Introduces principles, algorithms, and applications of machine learning from the point of view of modeling and prediction; formulation of learning problems; representation, over-fitting, generalization; clustering, classification, probabilistic modeling; and methods such as support vector machines, hidden Markov models, and neural networks. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Meets with 6.862 when offered concurrently. Recommended prerequisites: 6.006 and 18.06 . Enrollment may be limited.  4-0-8 units
6.037 | Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Studies the structure and interpretation of computer programs which transcend specific programming languages. Demonstrates thought patterns for computer science using Scheme. Includes weekly programming projects. Enrollment may be limited.  1-0-5 units
6.041 | Introduction to Probability | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:calculus ii (gir) instructors:G. Bresler, P. Jaillet, J. N. Tsitsiklis term:U (Fall, Spring) description:An introduction to probability theory, the modeling and analysis of probabilistic systems, and elements of statistical inference. Probabilistic models, conditional probability. Discrete and continuous random variables. Expectation and conditional expectation, and further topics about random variables. Limit Theorems. Bayesian estimation and hypothesis testing. Elements of classical statistical inference. Bernoulli and Poisson processes. Markov chains. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.431 4-0-8 units. REST
6.042 | Mathematics for Computer Science |  | prereq:calculus i (gir) instructors:F. T. Leighton, Z. R. Abel, A. Moitra term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Elementary discrete mathematics for computer science and engineering. Emphasis on mathematical definitions and proofs as well as on applicable methods. Topics include formal logic notation, proof methods; induction, well-ordering; sets, relations; elementary graph theory; asymptotic notation and growth of functions; permutations and combinations, counting principles; discrete probability. Further selected topics include recursive definition and structural induction, state machines and invariants, integer congruences, recurrences, generating functions. Same subject as 18.062[J] 5-0-7 units. REST
6.045 | Automata, Computability, and Complexity |  | prereq:6.042[j] instructors:R. Williams, R. Rubinfeld term:U (Spring) description:Mathematical introduction to questions concerning the definition of computation, and what problems can be solved by computers. Considers what problems can be efficiently solved by way of finite automata, circuits, Turing machines, and communication complexity. Provides complete, rigorous answers to the questions in some cases; others are major open problems. Builds skills in classifying computational problems in terms of their difficulty. Discusses other fundamental issues, including the Church-Turing Thesis, the P versus NP problem, and the power of randomness. Same subject as 18.400[J] 4-0-8 units
6.046 | Design and Analysis of Algorithms |  | prereq:6.006 instructors:E. Demaine, M. Goemans term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Techniques for the design and analysis of efficient algorithms, emphasizing methods useful in practice. Topics include sorting; search trees, heaps, and hashing; divide-and-conquer; dynamic programming; greedy algorithms; amortized analysis; graph algorithms; and shortest paths. Advanced topics may include network flow; computational geometry; number-theoretic algorithms; polynomial and matrix calculations; caching; and parallel computing. Same subject as 18.410[J] 4-0-8 units
6.047 | Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-047-computational-biology-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Online textbooks, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:( biology (gir) 6.006 and 6.041b) or permission of instructor instructors:M. Kellis term:U (Fall) description:Covers the algorithmic and machine learning foundations of computational biology, combining theory with practice. Principles of algorithm design, influential problems and techniques, and analysis of large-scale biological datasets. Topics include (a) genomes: sequence analysis, gene finding, RNA folding, genome alignment and assembly, database search; (b) networks: gene expression analysis, regulatory motifs, biological network analysis; (c) evolution: comparative genomics, phylogenetics, genome duplication, genome rearrangements, evolutionary theory. These are coupled with fundamental algorithmic techniques including: dynamic programming, hashing, Gibbs sampling, expectation maximization, hidden Markov models, stochastic context-free grammars, graph clustering, dimensionality reduction, Bayesian networks. Subject meets with 6.878[J] , HST.507[J] 3-0-9 units
6.049 | Evolutionary Biology: Concepts, Models and Computation |  | prereq:( 6.0001 and 7.03 ) or permission of instructor instructors:R. Berwick, D. Bartel term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 7.33[J] . Same subject as 7.33[J] 3-0-9 units
6.050 | Information, Entropy, and Computation |  | prereq:physics i (gir) instructors:S. Lloyd, P. Penfield, Jr. term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:See description under subject 2.110[J] . Same subject as 2.110[J] 3-0-6 units
6.057 | Introduction to MATLAB | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-057-introduction-to-matlab-january-iap-2019 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: programming (no examples) prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Accelerated introduction to MATLAB and its popular toolboxes. Lectures are interactive, with students conducting sample MATLAB problems in real time. Includes problem-based MATLAB assignments. Students must provide their own laptop and software. Enrollment limited.  1-0-2 units
6.058 | Introduction to Signals and Systems, and Feedback Control |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) or permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Introduces fundamental concepts for 6.003 , including Fourier and Laplace transforms, convolution, sampling, filters, feedback control, stability, and Bode plots. Students engage in problem solving, using Mathematica and MATLAB software extensively to help visualize processing in the time frequency domains.  2-2-2 units
6.061 | Introduction to Electric Power Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-061-introduction-to-electric-power-systems-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate features:Online textbooks, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:6.002 and 6.013 instructors:J. L. Kirtley, Jr. term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Electric circuit theory with application to power handling electric circuits. Modeling and behavior of electromechanical devices, including magnetic circuits, motors, and generators. Operational fundamentals of synchronous. Interconnection of generators and motors with electric power transmission and distribution circuits. Power generation, including alternative and sustainable sources. Incorporation of energy storage in power systems. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.690 3-0-9 units
6.070 | Electronics Project Laboratory |  | prereq:none instructors:J. Bales term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Intuition-based introduction to electronics, electronic components and test equipment such as oscilloscopes, meters (voltage, resistance inductance, capacitance, etc.), and signal generators. Emphasizes individual instruction and development of skills, such as soldering, assembly, and troubleshooting. Students design, build, and keep a small electronics project to put their new knowledge into practice. Intended for students with little or no previous background in electronics. Enrollment may be limited. Same subject as EC.120[J] 1-2-3 units
6.072 | Introduction to Digital Electronics |  | prereq:none instructors:J. Bales term:U (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:See description under subject EC.110[J] . Maximum of 10 students per term, lottery at the first class session if oversubscribed. Same subject as EC.110[J] 0-3-3 units
6.073 | Creating Video Games | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/comparative-media-studies-writing/cms-611j-creating-video-games-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Captions/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Instructor insights prereq:6.01 cms.301 or cms.608 instructors:P. Tan, S. Verrilli, R. Eberhardt, A. Grant term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject CMS.611[J] . Limited to 24. Same subject as CMS.611[J] 3-3-6 units. HASS-A
6.08 | Introduction to EECS via Interconnected Embedded Systems |  | prereq:6.0001 or 6.145 coreq:physics ii (gir) instructors:S. Mueller, J. D. Steinmeyer, J. Voldman term:U (Spring) description:Introduction to embedded systems in the context of connected devices, wearables and the "Internet of Things" (IoT). Topics include microcontrollers, energy utilization, algorithmic efficiency, interfacing with sensors, networking, cryptography, and local versus distributed computation. Students design, make, and program an internet-connected wearable or handheld device. In final project, student teams design and demo their own cloud-connected IoT system. Enrollment limited; preference to first- and second-year students.  1-5-6 units. Institute LAB
6.S062 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department term:U (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Basic undergraduate subjects not offered in the regular curriculum.  Units arranged
6.S063 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department term:U (Fall) description:Basic undergraduate subjects not offered in the regular curriculum.  Units arranged
6.S076-6.S084 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (Fall) description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S085-6.S099 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.100 | Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Project |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:U (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Individual experimental work related to electrical engineering and computer science. Student must make arrangements with a project supervisor and file a proposal endorsed by the supervisor. Departmental approval required. Written report to be submitted upon completion of work.  Units arranged
6.101 | Introductory Analog Electronics Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-101-introductory-analog-electronics-laboratory-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate features:Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.002 instructors:G. Hom term:U (Spring) description:Introductory experimental laboratory explores the design, construction, and debugging of analog electronic circuits. Lectures and laboratory projects in the first half of the course investigate the performance characteristics of semiconductor devices (diodes, BJTs, and MOSFETs) and functional analog building blocks, including single-stage amplifiers, op amps, small audio amplifier, filters, converters, sensor circuits, and medical electronics (ECG, pulse-oximetry). Projects involve design, implementation, and presentation in an environment similar to that of industry engineering design teams. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Opportunity to simulate real-world problems and solutions that involve tradeoffs and the use of engineering judgment.  2-9-1 units. Institute LAB
6.111 | Introductory Digital Systems Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-111-introductory-digital-systems-laboratory-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams and solutions prereq:6.002 6.08 or 16.004 instructors:G. P. Hom, J. Steinmeyer, A. P. Chandrakasan term:U (Fall) description:Introduces digital systems with lectures and labs on logic, flip flops,  FPGAs, counters, timing, synchronization, and finite-state machines. Includes overview of accelerometers, gyros, time of light and other modern sensors.  Prepares students for the design and implementation of a final project of their choice: games, music, digital filters, wireless communications, video, or graphics.  Extensive use of Verilog for describing and implementing digital logic designs.  3-7-2 units. Institute LAB
6.115 | Microcomputer Project Laboratory |  | prereq:6.002 6.003 or 6.004 instructors:S. B. Leeb term:U (Spring) description:Introduces analysis and design of embedded systems. Microcontrollers provide adaptation, flexibility, and real-time control. Emphasizes construction of complete systems, including a five-axis robot arm, a fluorescent lamp ballast, a tomographic imaging station (e.g., a CAT scan), and a simple calculator. Presents a wide range of basic tools, including software and development tools, programmable system on chip, peripheral components such as A/D converters, communication schemes, signal processing techniques, closed-loop digital feedback control, interface and power electronics, and modeling of electromechanical systems. Includes a sequence of assigned projects, followed by a final project of the student's choice, emphasizing creativity and uniqueness. Provides instruction in written and oral communication. To satisfy the independent inquiry component of this subject, students expand the scope of their laboratory project. Subject meets with 6.1151 3-6-3 units. Institute LAB
6.1151 | Microcomputer Project Laboratory - Independent Inquiry |  | prereq:6.002 6.003 or 6.004 instructors:S. B. Leeb term:U (Spring) description:Introduces analysis and design of embedded systems. Microcontrollers provide adaptation, flexibility, and real-time control. Emphasizes construction of complete systems, including a five-axis robot arm, a fluorescent lamp ballast, a tomographic imaging station (e.g., a CAT scan), and a simple calculator. Presents a wide range of basic tools, including software and development tools, programmable system on chip, peripheral components such as A/D converters, communication schemes, signal processing techniques, closed-loop digital feedback control, interface and power electronics, and modeling of electromechanical systems. Includes a sequence of assigned projects, followed by a final project of the student's choice, emphasizing creativity and uniqueness. Provides instruction in written and oral communication. Students taking independent inquiry version 6.1151 expand the scope of their laboratory project. Subject meets with 6.115 3-9-3 units
6.117 | Introduction to Electrical Engineering Lab Skills |  | prereq:none instructors:G. P. Hom term:U (IAP) description:Introduces basic electrical engineering concepts, components, and laboratory techniques. Covers analog integrated circuits, power supplies, and digital circuits. Lab exercises provide practical experience in constructing projects using multi-meters, oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, and other tools. Includes a project in which students build a circuit to display their own EKG. Enrollment limited.  1-3-2 units
6.123 | Bioinstrumentation Project Lab |  | prereq:20.309[j] ( biology (gir) and ( 2.004 or 6.003 )) or permission of instructor instructors:E. Boyden, M. Jonas, S. F. Nagle, P. So, S. Wasserman, M. F. Yanik term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 20.345[J] . Enrollment limited; preference to Course 20 majors and minors. Same subject as 20.345[J] 2-7-3 units
6.129 | Biological Circuit Engineering Laboratory |  | prereq:biology (gir) and calculus ii (gir) instructors:T. Lu, R. Weiss term:U (Spring) description:Students assemble individual genes and regulatory elements into larger-scale circuits; they experimentally characterize these circuits in yeast cells using quantitative techniques, including flow cytometry, and model their results computationally. Emphasizes concepts and techniques to perform independent experimental and computational synthetic biology research. Discusses current literature and ongoing research in the field of synthetic biology. Instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Enrollment limited. Same subject as 20.129[J] 2-8-2 units. Institute LAB
6.131 | Power Electronics Laboratory |  | prereq:6.002 or 6.003 instructors:S. B. Leeb term:U (Fall) description:Introduces the design and construction of power electronic circuits and motor drives. Laboratory exercises include the construction of drive circuitry for an electric go-cart, flash strobes, computer power supplies, three-phase inverters for AC motors, and resonant drives for lamp ballasts and induction heating. Basic electric machines introduced include DC, induction, and permanent magnet motors, with drive considerations. Provides instruction in written and oral communication. Students taking independent inquiry version 6.1311 expand the scope of their laboratory project. Subject meets with 6.1311 3-6-3 units. Institute LAB
6.1311 | Power Electronics Laboratory - Independent Inquiry |  | prereq:6.002 or 6.003 instructors:S. B. Leeb term:U (Fall) description:Introduces the design and construction of power electronic circuits and motor drives. Laboratory exercises include the construction of drive circuitry for an electric go-cart, flash strobes, computer power supplies, three-phase inverters for AC motors, and resonant drives for lamp ballasts and induction heating. Basic electric machines introduced include DC, induction, and permanent magnet motors, with drive considerations. Provides instruction in written and oral communication. To satisfy the independent inquiry component of this subject, students expand the scope of their laboratory project. Subject meets with 6.131 3-9-3 units
6.141 | Robotics: Science and Systems |  | prereq:(( 1.00 or 6.0001 ) and ( 2.003[j] 6.006 6.009 or 16.06 )) or permission of instructor instructors:L.  Carlone, S. Karaman term:U (Spring) description:Presents concepts, principles, and algorithmic foundations for robots and autonomous vehicles operating in the physical world. Topics include sensing, kinematics and dynamics, state estimation, computer vision, perception, learning, control, motion planning, and embedded system development. Students design and implement advanced algorithms on complex robotic platforms capable of agile autonomous navigation and real-time interaction with the physical word. Students engage in extensive written and oral communication exercises. Enrollment limited. Same subject as 16.405[J] 2-6-4 units. Institute LAB
6.145 | Brief Introduction to Python |  | prereq:none instructors:A. Hartz term:U (IAP; partial term) description:Three-week introduction to programming in Python for students with little or no prior experience, designed to be taken prior to 6.01 or 6.08 . Provides instruction in the basics of programming in Python through online materials and in-class laboratory exercises.  0-1-2 units
6.146 | Mobile Autonomous Systems Laboratory: MASLAB |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Autonomous robotics contest emphasizing technical AI, vision, mapping and navigation from a robot-mounted camera. Few restrictions are placed on materials, sensors, and/or actuators enabling teams to build robots very creatively. Teams should have members with varying engineering, programming and mechanical backgrounds. Culminates with a robot competition at the end of IAP. Enrollment limited.  2-2-2 units
6.147 | The Battlecode Programming Competition |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Artificial Intelligence programming contest in Java. Student teams program virtual robots to play Battlecode, a real-time strategy game. Competition culminates in a live BattleCode tournament. Assumes basic knowledge of programming.  2-0-4 units
6.148 | Web Lab: A Web Programming Class and Competition |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Student teams design and build web applications. Lectures cover version control, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Prior experience unnecessary as instructors and industry professionals teach both basic and advanced material. Teams present their projects in competition for prizes awarded by a judging panel of industry experts.  1-0-5 units
6.150 | Mobile Applications Competition |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Student teams design and build an Android application based on a given theme. Lectures and labs led by experienced students and leading industry experts, covering the basics of Android development, concepts and tools to help participants build great apps. Contest culminates with a public presentation in front of a judging panel comprised of professional developers and MIT faculty. Prizes awarded. Enrollment limited.  2-2-2 units
6.151 | iOS Game Design and Development Competition |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Introduction to iOS game design and development for students already familiar with object-oriented programming. Provides a set of basic tools (Objective-C and Cocos2D) and exposure to real-world issues in game design. Working in small teams, students complete a final project in which they create their own iPhone game. At the end of IAP, teams present their games in competition for prizes awarded by a judging panel of gaming experts.  2-2-2 units
6.152 | Micro/Nano Processing Technology |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) chemistry (gir) physics ii (gir) or permission of instructor instructors:J. Michel, J. Scholvin term:U (Fall) description:Introduces the theory and technology of micro/nano fabrication. Includes lectures and laboratory sessions on processing techniques: wet and dry etching, chemical and physical deposition, lithography, thermal processes, packaging, and device and materials characterization. Homework uses process simulation tools to build intuition about higher order effects. Emphasizes interrelationships between material properties and processing, device structure, and the electrical, mechanical, optical, chemical or biological behavior of devices. Students fabricate solar cells, and a choice of MEMS cantilevers or microfluidic mixers. Students formulate their own device idea, either based on cantilevers or mixers, then implement and test their designs in the lab. Students engage in extensive written and oral communication exercises. Course provides background for research work related to micro/nano fabrication. Enrollment limited. Same subject as 3.155[J] 3-4-5 units
6.161 | Modern Optics Project Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-161-modern-optics-project-laboratory-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate features:Projects (no examples) prereq:6.003 instructors:C. Warde term:U (Fall) description:Lectures, laboratory exercises and projects on optical signal generation, transmission, detection, storage, processing and display. Topics include polarization properties of light; reflection and refraction; coherence and interference; Fraunhofer and Fresnel diffraction; holography; Fourier optics; coherent and incoherent imaging and signal processing systems; optical properties of materials; lasers and LEDs; electro-optic and acousto-optic light modulators; photorefractive and liquid-crystal light modulation; display technologies; optical waveguides and fiber-optic communication systems; photodetectors. Students may use this subject to find an advanced undergraduate project. Students engage in extensive oral and written communcation exercises. Recommended prerequisite: 8.03 . Subject meets with 6.637 3-5-4 units. Institute LAB
6.163 | Strobe Project Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-163-strobe-project-laboratory-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate features:Demonstration - video, Image galleries, Projects and examples, Exams and solutions prereq:physics ii (gir) or permission of instructor instructors:J. K. Vandiver, J. W. Bales term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Application of electronic flash sources to measurement and photography. First half covers fundamentals of photography and electronic flashes, including experiments on application of electronic flash to photography, stroboscopy, motion analysis, and high-speed videography. Students write four extensive lab reports. In the second half, students work in small groups to select, design, and execute independent projects in measurement or photography that apply learned techniques. Project planning and execution skills are discussed and developed over the term. Students engage in extensive written and oral communication exercises. Enrollment limited.  2-8-2 units. Institute LAB
6.169 | Theory and Application of Circuits and Electronics |  | prereq:none. coreq:6.002 instructors:A. Agarwal, J. del Alamo, J. H. Lang, D. J. Perreault term:U (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Building on the framework of 6.002 , provides a deeper understanding of the theory and applications of circuits and electronics.  1-1-1 units
6.170 | Software Studio | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-170-software-studio-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples) prereq:6.031 and 6.042[j] instructors:D. N. Jackson, A. Satyanarayan term:U (Fall) description:Covers the design of software applications, with an emphasis on user experience. Provides instruction on how to craft robust and flexible implementations and how to shape the user experience through the design of interfaces and behavior. Topics include need finding, conceptual design, prototyping, data design and user interface design, as well as programming with JavaScript, a reactive front-end framework and a cloud data store. Students work in teams on term-long projects in which they construct applications of social value.  4-9-2 units
6.172 | Performance Engineering of Software Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-172-performance-engineering-of-software-systems-fall-2018 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams and solutions prereq:6.004 6.006 and 6.031 instructors:S. Amarasinghe, C. E. Leiserson term:U (Fall) description:Project-based introduction to building efficient, high-performance and scalable software systems. Topics include performance analysis, algorithmic techniques for high performance, instruction-level optimizations, vectorization, cache and memory hierarchy optimization, and parallel programming.  3-12-3 units
6.175 | Constructive Computer Architecture |  | prereq:6.004 instructors:Arvind term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Fall) description:Illustrates a constructive (as opposed to a descriptive) approach to computer architecture. Topics include combinational and pipelined arithmetic-logic units (ALU), in-order pipelined microarchitectures, branch prediction, blocking and unblocking caches, interrupts, virtual memory support, cache coherence and multicore architectures. Labs in a modern Hardware Design Language (HDL) illustrate various aspects of microprocessor design, culminating in a term project in which students present a multicore design running on an FPGA board.  3-8-1 units
6.176 | Pokerbots Competition |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Build autonomous poker players and aquire the knowledge of the game of poker. Showcase decision making skills, apply concepts in mathematics, computer science and economics. Provides instruction in programming, game theory, probability and statistics and machine learning. Concludes with a final competition and prizes. Enrollment limited.  1-0-5 units
6.178 | Introduction to Software Engineering in Java |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Covers the fundamentals of Java, helping students develop intuition about object-oriented programming. Focuses on developing working software that solves real problems. Designed for students with little or no programming experience. Concepts covered useful to 6.005. Enrollment limited.  1-1-4 units
6.179 | Introduction to C and C++ |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Fast-paced introduction to the C and C++ programming languages. Intended for those with experience in other languages who have never used C or C++. Students complete daily assignments, a small-scale individual project, and a mandatory online diagnostic test. Enrollment limited.  3-3-0 units
6.182 | Psychoacoustics Project Laboratory |  | prereq:none instructors:L. D. Braida term:U (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Introduces the methods used to measure human auditory abilities. Discusses auditory function, principles of psychoacoustic measurement, models for psychoacoustic performance, and experimental techniques. Project topics: absolute and differential auditory sensitivity, operating characteristics of human observers, span of auditory judgment, adaptive measurement procedures, and scaling sensory magnitudes. Knowledge of probability helpful. Students engage in extensive written and oral communication exercises.  3-6-3 units. Institute LAB
6.S183 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S184 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S185 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:D. M. Freeman term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S186 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S187 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S188 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:D. M. Freeman term:U (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S189 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:D. M. Freeman term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S190 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:D. M. Freeman term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S191 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S192 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (IAP) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S197 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S193-6.S198 | Special Laboratory Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Fall) description:Laboratory subject that covers content not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.UAP | Undergraduate Advanced Project |  | prereq:6.uat instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Research project for those EECS students whose curriculum requires a senior project. To be arranged by the student and an appropriate MIT faculty member. Students who register for this subject must consult the department undergraduate office. Students engage in extensive written communications exercises.  0-6-0 units
6.UAR | Seminar in Undergraduate Advanced Research |  | prereq:6.ur and permission of instructor instructors:A. P. Chandrakasan, D. M. Freeman, D. Katabi term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Instruction in effective undergraduate research, including choosing and developing a research topic, surveying previous work and publications, research topics in EECS, industry best practices, design for robustness, technical presentation, authorship and collaboration, and ethics. Students engage in extensive written and oral communication exercises, in the context of an approved advanced research project. A total of 12 units of credit is awarded for completion of the Fall and subsequent Spring term offerings. Application required; consult EECS SuperUROP website for more information.  2-0-4 units
6.UAT | Oral Communication |  | prereq:none instructors:T. L. Eng term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Provides instruction in aspects of effective technical oral presentations and exposure to communication skills useful in a workplace setting. Students create, give and revise a number of presentations of varying length targeting a range of different audiences. Enrollment may be limited.  3-0-6 units
6.URS | Undergraduate Research in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:A. P. Chandrakasan, D. M. Freeman term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Year-long individual research project arranged with appropriate faculty member or approved supervisor. Forms and instructions for the proposal and final report are available in the EECS Undergraduate Office.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.207 | Networks |  | prereq:6.041 or 14.30 instructors:A. Wolitzky term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 14.15[J] . Same subject as 14.15[J] 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
6.215 | Optimization Methods |  | prereq:18.06 instructors:D. Bertsimas, P. Parrilo term:U (Fall) description:Introduces the principal algorithms for linear, network, discrete, robust, nonlinear, and dynamic optimization. Emphasizes methodology and the underlying mathematical structures. Topics include the simplex method, network flow methods, branch and bound and cutting plane methods for discrete optimization, optimality conditions for nonlinear optimization, interior point methods for convex optimization, Newton's method, heuristic methods, and dynamic programming and optimal control methods. Expectations and evaluation criteria differ for students taking graduate version; consult syllabus or instructor for specific details. Subject meets with 6.255[J] , 15.093[J] , IDS.200[J] 4-0-8 units
6.231 | Dynamic Programming and Reinforcement Learning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-231-dynamic-programming-and-stochastic-control-fall-2015 | level:Graduate features:Special feature - video, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams and solutions prereq:18.600 or 6.041 instructors:J. N. Tsitsiklis term:G (Spring) description:Dynamic programming as a unifying framework for sequential decision-making under uncertainty, Markov decision problems, and stochastic control. Perfect and imperfect state information models. Finite horizon and infinite horizon problems, including discounted and average cost formulations. Value and policy iteration. Suboptimal methods. Approximate dynamic programming for large-scale problems, and reinforcement learning. Applications and examples drawn from diverse domains. While an analysis prerequisite is not required, mathematical maturity is necessary.  4-0-8 units
6.241 | Dynamic Systems and Control |  | prereq:6.003 and 18.06 instructors:M. A. Dahleh, A. Megretski term:G (Spring) description:Linear, discrete- and continuous-time, multi-input-output systems in control, related areas. Least squares and matrix perturbation problems. State-space models, modes, stability, controllability, observability, transfer function matrices, poles and zeros, and minimality. Internal stability of interconnected systems, feedback compensators, state feedback, optimal regulation, observers, and observer-based compensators. Measures of control performance, robustness issues using singular values of transfer functions. Introductory ideas on nonlinear systems. Recommended prerequisite: 6.302 . Same subject as 16.338[J] 4-0-8 units
6.244 | Graphical Models: A Geometric, Algebraic, and Combinatorial Perspective |  | prereq:6.431 and 18.06 instructors:C. Uhler term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:See description under subject IDS.136[J] . Same subject as IDS.136[J] 3-0-9 units
6.245 | Multivariable Control Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-245-multivariable-control-systems-spring-2004 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes prereq:6.241[j] or 16.31 instructors:A. Megretski term:G (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Computer-aided design methodologies for synthesis of multivariable feedback control systems. Performance and robustness trade-offs. Model-based compensators; Q-parameterization; ill-posed optimization problems; dynamic augmentation; linear-quadratic optimization of controllers; H-infinity controller design; Mu-synthesis; model and compensator simplification; nonlinear effects. Computer-aided (MATLAB) design homework using models of physical processes.  3-0-9 units
6.246, 6.247 | Advanced Topics in Control |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) description:Advanced study of topics in control. Specific focus varies from year to year.  3-0-9 units
6.248, 6.249 | Advanced Topics in Numerical Methods |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in numerical methods. Specific focus varies from year to year.  3-0-9 units
6.251 | Introduction to Mathematical Programming |  | prereq:18.06 instructors:J. N. Tsitsiklis, D. Bertsimas term:G (Fall) description:Introduction to linear optimization and its extensions emphasizing both methodology and the underlying mathematical structures and geometrical ideas. Covers classical theory of linear programming as well as some recent advances in the field. Topics: simplex method; duality theory; sensitivity analysis; network flow problems; decomposition; integer programming; interior point algorithms for linear programming; and introduction to combinatorial optimization and NP-completeness. Same subject as 15.081[J] 4-0-8 units
6.252 | Nonlinear Optimization |  | prereq:18.06 and ( 18.100a 18.100b or 18.100q ) instructors:R. M. Freund, P. Parrilo, G. Perakis term:G (Spring) description:Unified analytical and computational approach to nonlinear optimization problems. Unconstrained optimization methods include gradient, conjugate direction, Newton, sub-gradient and first-order methods. Constrained optimization methods include feasible directions, projection, interior point methods, and Lagrange multiplier methods. Convex analysis, Lagrangian relaxation, nondifferentiable optimization, and applications in integer programming. Comprehensive treatment of optimality conditions and Lagrange multipliers. Geometric approach to duality theory. Applications drawn from control, communications, machine learning, and resource allocation problems. Same subject as 15.084[J] 4-0-8 units
6.254 | Game Theory with Engineering Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-254-game-theory-with-engineering-applications-spring-2010 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.431 instructors:A. Ozdaglar term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Introduction to fundamentals of game theory and mechanism design with motivations for each topic drawn from engineering applications (including distributed control of wireline/wireless communication networks, transportation networks, pricing). Emphasis on the foundations of the theory, mathematical tools, as well as modeling and the equilibrium notion in different environments. Topics include normal form games, supermodular games, dynamic games, repeated games, games with incomplete/imperfect information, mechanism design, cooperative game theory, and network games.  4-0-8 units
6.255 | Optimization Methods |  | prereq:18.06 instructors:D. Bertsimas, P. Parrilo term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 15.093[J] . Same subject as 15.093[J] , IDS.200[J] Subject meets with 6.215 4-0-8 units
6.256 | Algebraic Techniques and Semidefinite Optimization |  | prereq:6.251[j] or 15.093[j] instructors:P. Parrilo term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Theory and computational techniques for optimization problems involving polynomial equations and inequalities with particular, emphasis on the connections with semidefinite optimization. Develops algebraic and numerical approaches of general applicability, with a view towards methods that simultaneously incorporate both elements, stressing convexity-based ideas, complexity results, and efficient implementations. Examples from several engineering areas, in particular systems and control applications. Topics include semidefinite programming, resultants/discriminants, hyperbolic polynomials, Groebner bases, quantifier elimination, and sum of squares. Same subject as 18.456[J] 3-0-9 units
6.260, 6.261 | Advanced Topics in Communications |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in communications. Specific focus varies from year to year.  3-0-9 units
6.262 | Discrete Stochastic Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-262-discrete-stochastic-processes-spring-2011 | level:Graduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Online textbooks, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:6.431 or 18.204 instructors:R. G. Gallager, V. W. S. Chan term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Review of probability and laws of large numbers; Poisson counting process and renewal processes; Markov chains (including Markov decision theory), branching processes, birth-death processes, and semi-Markov processes; continuous-time Markov chains and reversibility; random walks, martingales, and large deviations; applications from queueing, communication, control, and operations research.  4-0-8 units
6.263 | Data-Communication Networks |  | prereq:6.041 or 18.204 instructors:E. Modiano term:G (Fall) description:Provides an introduction to data networks with an analytic perspective, using wireless networks, satellite networks, optical networks, the internet and data centers as primary applications. Presents basic tools for modeling and performance analysis. Draws upon concepts from stochastic processes, queuing theory, and optimization. Same subject as 16.37[J] 3-0-9 units
6.265 | Discrete Probability and Stochastic Processes |  | prereq:6.431 6.436[j] 18.100a 18.100b or 18.100q instructors:G. Bresler, D. Gamarnik, E. Mossel, Y. Polyanskiy term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:See description under subject 15.070[J] . Same subject as 15.070[J] 3-0-9 units
6.267 | Heterogeneous Networks: Architecture, Transport, Proctocols, and Management |  | prereq:6.041 or 6.042[j] instructors:V. W. S. Chan, R. G. Gallager term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Fall) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:Introduction to modern heterogeneous networks and the provision of heterogeneous services. Architectural principles, analysis, algorithmic techniques, performance analysis, and existing designs are developed and applied to understand current problems in network design and architecture. Begins with basic principles of networking. Emphasizes development of mathematical and algorithmic tools; applies them to understanding network layer design from the performance and scalability viewpoint. Concludes with network management and control, including the architecture and performance analysis of interconnected heterogeneous networks. Provides background and insight to understand current network literature and to perform research on networks with the aid of network design projects.  4-0-8 units
6.268 | Network Science and Models |  | prereq:6.431 and 18.06 instructors:P. Jaillet, J. N. Tsitsiklis term:G (Spring) description:Introduces the main mathematical models used to describe large networks and dynamical processes that evolve on networks. Static models of random graphs, preferential attachment, and other graph evolution models. Epidemic propagation, opinion dynamics, social learning, and inference in networks. Applications drawn from social, economic, natural, and infrastructure networks, as well as networked decision systems such as sensor networks.  3-0-9 units
6.301 | Solid-State Circuits | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-301-solid-state-circuits-fall-2010 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.002 instructors:H.-S. Lee, R. Han term:U (Fall) description:Fosters deep understanding and intuition that is crucial in innovating analog circuits and optimizing the whole system in bipolar junction transistor (BJT) and metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) technologies. Covers both theory and real-world applications of basic amplifier structures, operational amplifiers, temperature sensors, bandgap references, and translinear circuits. Provides practical experience through various lab exercises, including a broadband amplifier design and characterization. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.321 3-2-7 units
6.302 | Feedback System Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-302-feedback-systems-spring-2007 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:physics ii (gir) and ( 2.087 or 18.03 ) instructors:J. K. White term:U (Spring) description:Learn-by-design introduction to modeling and control of discrete- and continuous-time systems, from classical analytical techniques to modern computational strategies. Topics include modeling (difference/differential equations, natural frequencies, transfer functions, frequency response, impedances);  performance metrics (stability, tracking, disturbance rejection); classical design (root-locus, PID, lead-lag); state-space (ABCD matrices, pole placement, LQR, observers); and data-driven design (regression,identification, model-based control). Students apply concepts introduced in lectures and online assignments to design labs that include discussion-based checkoffs. In lab, students use circuits, sensors, actuators, and a microcontroller to design, build and test controllers for, e.g., propeller-actuated positioners, magnetic levitators, and two-wheel balancers. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.320 4-4-4 units
6.320 | Feedback System Design |  | prereq:physics ii (gir) and ( 2.087 or 18.03 ) instructors:J. K. White term:G (Spring) description:Learn-by-design introduction to modeling and control of discrete- and continuous-time systems, from classical analytical techniques to modern computational strategies. Topics include modeling (difference/differential equations, natural frequencies, transfer functions, frequency response, impedances);  performance metrics (stability, tracking, disturbance rejection); classical design (root-locus, PID, lead-lag); state-space (ABCD matrices, pole placement, LQR, observers); and data-driven design (regression,identification, model-based control). Students apply concepts introduced in lectures and online assignments to design labs that include discussion-based checkoffs. In lab, students use circuits, sensors, actuators, and a microcontroller to design, build and test controllers for, e.g., propeller-actuated positioners, magnetic levitators, and two-wheel balancers. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.302 4-4-4 units
6.321 | Solid-State Circuits (New) |  | prereq:6.002 instructors:H.-S. Lee, R. Han term:G (Fall) description:Fosters deep understanding and intuition that is crucial in innovating analog circuits and optimizing the whole system in bipolar junction transistor (BJT) and metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) technologies. Covers both theory and real-world applications of basic amplifier structures, operational amplifiers, temperature sensors, bandgap references, and translinear circuits. Provides practical experience through various lab exercises, including a broadband amplifier design and characterization. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.301 3-2-7 units
6.332, 6.333 | Advanced Topics in Circuits |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) description:Advanced study of topics in circuits. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.334 | Power Electronics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-334-power-electronics-spring-2007 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.012 instructors:D. J. Perreault term:G (Spring) description:The application of electronics to energy conversion and control. Modeling, analysis, and control techniques. Design of power circuits including inverters, rectifiers, and dc-dc converters. Analysis and design of magnetic components and filters. Characteristics of power semiconductor devices. Numerous application examples, such as motion control systems, power supplies, and radio-frequency power amplifiers.  3-0-9 units
6.335 | Fast Methods for Partial Differential and Integral Equations |  | prereq:6.336[j] 16.920[j] 18.085 18.335[j] or permission of instructor instructors:K. Burns term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 18.336[J] . Same subject as 18.336[J] 3-0-9 units
6.336 | Introduction to Numerical Simulation |  | prereq:18.03 or 18.06 instructors:L. Daniel term:G (Fall) description:Introduction to computational techniques for modeling and simulation of a variety of large and complex engineering, science, and socio-economical systems. Prepares students for practical use and development of computational engineering in their own research and future work. Topics include mathematical formulations (e.g., automatic assembly of constitutive and conservation principles); linear system solvers (sparse and iterative); nonlinear solvers (Newton and homotopy); ordinary, time-periodic and partial differential equation solvers; and model order reduction. Students develop their own models and simulators for self-proposed applications, with an emphasis on creativity, teamwork, and communication. Prior basic linear algebra and programming (e.g., MATLAB or Python) helpful. Same subject as 2.096[J] , 16.910[J] 3-6-3 units
6.337 | Introduction to Numerical Methods |  | prereq:18.06 18.700 or 18.701 instructors:S. Johnson term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 18.335[J] . Same subject as 18.335[J] 3-0-9 units
6.338 | Numerical Computing and Interactive Software |  | prereq:18.06 18.700 or 18.701 instructors:C. Rackauckas term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 18.337[J] . Same subject as 18.337[J] 3-0-9 units
6.339 | Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations |  | prereq:18.03 or 18.06 instructors:Q. Wang, S. Groth term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 16.920[J] . Same subject as 2.097[J] , 16.920[J] 3-0-9 units
6.341 | Discrete-Time Signal Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-341-discrete-time-signal-processing-fall-2005 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:6.011 instructors:A. V. Oppenheim, J. Ward term:G (Fall) description:Representation, analysis, and design of discrete time signals and systems. Decimation, interpolation, and sampling rate conversion. Noise shaping. Flowgraph structures for DT systems. IIR and FIR filter design techniques. Parametric signal modeling, linear prediction, and lattice filters. Discrete Fourier transform, DFT computation, and FFT algorithms. Spectral analysis, time-frequency analysis, relation to filter banks. Multirate signal processing, perfect reconstruction filter banks, and connection to wavelets.  4-0-8 units
6.344 | Digital Image Processing |  | prereq:6.003 and 6.431 instructors:J. S. Lim term:G (Spring) description:Digital images as two-dimensional signals. Digital signal processing theories used for digital image processing, including one-dimensional and two-dimensional convolution, Fourier transform, discrete Fourier transform, and discrete cosine transform. Image processing basics. Image enhancement. Image restoration. Image coding and compression. Video processing including video coding and compression. Additional topics including digital high-definition television systems.  3-0-9 units
6.345 | Automatic Speech Recognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-345-automatic-speech-recognition-spring-2003 | level:Graduate features:Demonstration - audio, Lecture notes prereq:6.011 and 6.036 instructors:J. R. Glass, V. W. Zue term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Introduces the rapidly developing fields of automatic speech recognition and spoken language processing. Topics include acoustic theory of speech production, acoustic-phonetics, signal representation, acoustic and language modeling, search, hidden Markov modeling, neural networks models, adaptation, and other related speech processing topics. Lecture material intersperses theory with practice. Includes problem sets, laboratory exercises, and opened-ended term project. Same subject as HST.728[J] 3-1-8 units
6.347, 6.348 | Advanced Topics in Signals and Systems |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in signals and systems. Specific focus varies from year to year.  3-0-9 units
6.374 | Analysis and Design of Digital Integrated Circuits | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-374-analysis-and-design-of-digital-integrated-circuits-fall-2003 | level:Graduate features:Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams and solutions prereq:6.004 and 6.012 instructors:V. Sze, A. P. Chandrakasan term:G (Fall) description:Device and circuit level optimization of digital building blocks. MOS device models including Deep Sub-Micron effects. Circuit design styles for logic, arithmetic, and sequential blocks. Estimation and minimization of energy consumption. Interconnect models and parasitics, device sizing and logical effort, timing issues (clock skew and jitter), and active clock distribution techniques. Memory architectures, circuits (sense amplifiers), and devices. Testing of integrated circuits. Extensive custom and standard cell layout and simulation in design projects and software labs.  3-3-6 units
6.375 | Complex Digital Systems Design |  | prereq:6.004 instructors:Arvind term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Fall) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:Introduction to the design and implementation of large-scale digital systems using hardware description languages and high-level synthesis tools in conjunction with standard commercial electronic design automation (EDA) tools. Emphasizes modular and robust designs, reusable modules, correctness by construction, architectural exploration, meeting area and timing constraints, and developing functional field-programmable gate array (FPGA) prototypes. Extensive use of CAD tools in weekly labs serve as preparation for a multi-person design project on multi-million gate FPGAs. Enrollment may be limited.  5-5-2 units
6.419 | Statistics, Computation and Applications |  | prereq:(( 2.087 6.0002 6.01 18.03 or 18.06 ) and ( 6.008 6.041 14.30 16.09 or 18.05 )) or permission of instructor instructors:S. Jegelka term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject IDS.012[J] . Enrollment limited; priority to Statistics and Data Science minors, and to juniors and seniors. Same subject as IDS.012[J] Subject meets with 6.439[J] , IDS.131[J] 3-1-8 units
6.431 | Introduction to Probability | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:calculus ii (gir) instructors:G. Bresler, P. Jaillet, J. N. Tsitsiklis term:G (Fall) description:An introduction to probability theory, the modeling and analysis of probabilistic systems, and elements of statistical inference. Probabilistic models, conditional probability. Discrete and continuous random variables. Expectation and conditional expectation, and further topics about random variables. Limit Theorems. Bayesian estimation and hypothesis testing. Elements of classical statistical inference. Bernoulli and Poisson processes. Markov chains. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.041 4-0-8 units
6.434 | Statistics for Engineers and Scientists |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) 6.431 18.06 or permission of instructor instructors:M. Win, J. N. Tsitsiklis term:G (Fall) description:Rigorous introduction to fundamentals of statistics motivated by engineering applications. Topics include exponential families, order statistics, sufficient statistics, estimation theory, hypothesis testing, measures of performance, notions of optimality, analysis of variance (ANOVA), simple linear regression, and selected topics. Same subject as 16.391[J] 3-0-9 units
6.435 | Bayesian Modeling and Inference | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-435-system-identification-spring-2005 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes prereq:6.436[j] and 6.867 instructors:T. Broderick term:G (Spring) description:Covers Bayesian modeling and inference at an advanced graduate level. Topics include de Finetti's theorem, decision theory, approximate inference (modern approaches and analysis of Monte Carlo, variational inference, etc.), hierarchical modeling, (continuous and discrete) nonparametric Bayesian approaches, sensitivity and robustness, and evaluation.  3-0-9 units
6.436 | Fundamentals of Probability |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) instructors:J. N. Tsitsiklis, D. Gamarnik term:G (Fall) description:Introduction to probability theory. Probability spaces and measures. Discrete and continuous random variables. Conditioning and independence. Multivariate normal distribution. Abstract integration, expectation, and related convergence results. Moment generating and characteristic functions. Bernoulli and Poisson process. Finite-state Markov chains. Convergence notions and their relations. Limit theorems. Familiarity with elementary probability  and real analysis is desirable. Same subject as 15.085[J] 4-0-8 units
6.437 | Inference and Information |  | prereq:6.008 6.041b or 6.436[j] instructors:P. Golland, G. W. Wornell term:G (Spring) description:Introduction to principles of Bayesian and non-Bayesian statistical inference. Hypothesis testing and parameter estimation, sufficient statistics; exponential families. EM agorithm. Log-loss inference criterion, entropy and model capacity. Kullback-Leibler distance and information geometry. Asymptotic analysis and large deviations theory. Model order estimation; nonparametric statistics. Computational issues and approximation techniques; Monte Carlo methods. Selected topics such as universal inference and learning, and universal features and neural networks.  4-0-8 units
6.438 | Algorithms for Inference | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-438-algorithms-for-inference-fall-2014 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:18.06 and ( 6.008 6.041b or 6.436[j] ) instructors:P. Golland, G. W. Wornell, D. Shah term:G (Fall) description:Introduction to statistical inference with probabilistic graphical models. Directed and undirected graphical models, and factor graphs, over discrete and Gaussian distributions; hidden Markov models, linear dynamical systems. Sum-product and junction tree algorithms; forward-backward algorithm, Kalman filtering and smoothing. Min-sum and Viterbi algorithms. Variational methods, mean-field theory, and loopy belief propagation. Particle methods and filtering. Building graphical models from data, including parameter estimation and structure learning; Baum-Welch and Chow-Liu algorithms. Selected special topics.  4-0-8 units
6.439 | Statistics, Computation and Applications |  | prereq:(( 2.087 6.0002 6.01 18.03 or 18.06 ) and ( 6.008 6.041 14.30 16.09 or 18.05 )) or permission of instructor instructors:S. Jegelka term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject IDS.131[J] . Limited enrollment; priority to Statistics and Data Science minors and to juniors and seniors. Same subject as IDS.131[J] Subject meets with 6.419[J] , IDS.012[J] 3-1-8 units
6.440 | Essential Coding Theory |  | prereq:6.006 and 6.045[j] instructors:Staff term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Introduces the theory of error-correcting codes. Focuses on the essential results in the area, taught from first principles. Special focus on results of asymptotic or algorithmic significance. Principal topics include construction and existence results for error-correcting codes; limitations on the combinatorial performance of error-correcting codes; decoding algorithms; and applications to other areas of mathematics and computer science.  3-0-9 units
6.441 | Information Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-441-information-theory-spring-2016 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.041b instructors:M. Medard, Y. Polyanskiy, L. Zheng term:G (Spring) description:Mathematical definitions of information measures, convexity, continuity, and variational properties. Lossless source coding; variable-length and block compression; Slepian-Wolf theorem; ergodic sources and Shannon-McMillan theorem. Hypothesis testing, large deviations and I-projection. Fundamental limits of block coding for noisy channels: capacity, dispersion, finite blocklength bounds. Coding with feedback. Joint source-channel problem. Rate-distortion theory, vector quantizers. Advanced topics include Gelfand-Pinsker problem, multiple access channels, broadcast channels (depending on available time).  3-0-9 units
6.442 | Optical Networks |  | prereq:6.041b or 6.042[j] instructors:V. W. S. Chan term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Introduces the fundamental and practical aspects of optical network technology, architecture, design and analysis tools and techniques. The treatment of optical networks are from the architecture and system design points of view. Optical hardware technologies are introduced and characterized as fundamental network building blocks on which optical transmission systems and network architectures are based. Beyond the Physical Layer, the higher network layers (Media Access Control, Network and Transport Layers) are treated together as integral parts of network design. Performance metrics, analysis and optimization techniques are developed to help guide the creation of high performance complex optical networks.  3-0-9 units
6.443 | Quantum Information Science |  | prereq:18.435[j] instructors:I. Chuang, A. Harrow term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 8.371[J] . Same subject as 8.371[J] , 18.436[J] 3-0-9 units
6.450 | Principles of Digital Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-450-principles-of-digital-communication-i-fall-2009 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.011 instructors:V. W. S. Chan term:G (Fall) description:Communication sources and channels; data compression; entropy and the AEP; Lempel-Ziv universal coding; scalar and vector quantization; L2 waveforms; signal space and its representation by sampling and other expansions; aliasing; the Nyquist criterion; PAM and QAM modulation; Gaussian noise and random processes; detection and optimal receivers; fading channels and wireless communication; introduction to communication system design. Prior coursework in basic probability and linear system theory recommended.  3-0-9 units
6.452 | Principles of Wireless Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-452-principles-of-wireless-communications-spring-2006 | level:Graduate features:Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.450 instructors:G. W. Wornell, L. Zheng term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Introduction to design, analysis, and fundamental limits of wireless transmission systems. Wireless channel and system models; fading and diversity; resource management and power control; multiple-antenna and MIMO systems; space-time codes and decoding algorithms; multiple-access techniques and multiuser detection; broadcast codes and precoding; cellular and ad-hoc network topologies; OFDM and ultrawideband systems; architectural issues.  3-0-9 units
6.453 | Quantum Optical Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-453-quantum-optical-communication-fall-2016 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:6.011 and 18.06 instructors:J. H. Shapiro term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Quantum optics: Dirac notation quantum mechanics; harmonic oscillator quantization; number states, coherent states, and squeezed states; radiation field quantization and quantum field propagation; P-representation and classical fields. Linear loss and linear amplification: commutator preservation and the Uncertainty Principle; beam splitters; phase-insensitive and phase-sensitive amplifiers. Quantum photodetection: direct detection, heterodyne detection, and homodyne detection. Second-order nonlinear optics: phasematched interactions; optical parametric amplifiers; generation of squeezed states, photon-twin beams, non-classical fourth-order interference, and polarization entanglement. Quantum systems theory: optimum binary detection; quantum precision measurements; quantum cryptography; and quantum teleportation.  3-0-9 units
6.454 | Graduate Seminar in Area I |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:L. Zheng, D. Shah term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Student-run advanced graduate seminar with focus on topics in communications, control, signal processing, optimization. Participants give presentations outside of their own research to expose colleagues to topics not covered in the usual curriculum. Recent topics have included compressed sensing, MDL principle, communication complexity, linear programming decoding, biology in EECS, distributed hypothesis testing, algorithms for random satisfaction problems, and cryptogaphy. Open to advanced students from all areas of EECS. Limited to 12.  2-0-4 units
6.456 | Array Processing |  | prereq:6.341 and ( 2.687 or ( 6.011 and 18.06 )) instructors:E. Fischell term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Fall) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:Adaptive and non-adaptive processing of signals received at arrays of sensors. Deterministic beamforming, space-time random processes, optimal and adaptive algorithms, and the sensitivity of algorithm performance to modeling errors and limited data. Methods of improving the robustness of algorithms to modeling errors and limited data are derived. Advanced topics include an introduction to matched field processing and physics-based methods of estimating signal statistics. Homework exercises providing the opportunity to implement and analyze the performance of algorithms in processing data supplied during the course.  3-2-7 units
6.521 | Cellular Neurophysiology and Computing |  | prereq:( physics ii (gir) 18.03 and ( 2.005 6.002 6.003 10.301 or 20.110[j] )) or permission of instructor instructors:J. Han, T. Heldt term:G (Fall) description:Integrated overview of the biophysics of cells from prokaryotes to neurons, with a focus on mass transport and electrical signal generation across cell membrane. First third of course focuses on mass transport through membranes: diffusion, osmosis, chemically mediated, and active transport. Second third focuses on electrical properties of cells: ion transport to action potential generation and propagation in electrically excitable cells. Synaptic transmission. Electrical properties interpreted via kinetic and molecular properties of single voltage-gated ion channels. Final third focuses on biophysics of synaptic transmission and introduction to neural computing. Laboratory and computer exercises illustrate the concepts. Students taking graduate version complete different assignments. Same subject as 2.794[J] , 9.021[J] , 20.470[J] , HST.541[J] Subject meets with 2.791[J] , 6.021[J] , 9.21[J] , 20.370[J] 5-2-5 units
6.522 | Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems |  | prereq:6.021[j] and ( 2.006 or 6.013 ) instructors:T. Heldt, R. G. Mark term:G (Spring) description:Application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. Anatomical, physiological and clinical features of the cardiovascular, respiratory and renal systems. Mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. Systems, features and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences and engineering models. Required laboratory work includes animal studies. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Same subject as 2.796[J] Subject meets with 2.792[J] , 6.022[J] , HST.542[J] 4-2-6 units
6.524 | Molecular, Cellular, and Tissue Biomechanics |  | prereq:biology (gir) and ( 2.002 2.006 6.013 10.301 or 10.302 ) instructors:R. D. Kamm, K. J. Van Vliet term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:See description under subject 20.410[J] . Same subject as 2.798[J] , 3.971[J] , 10.537[J] , 20.410[J] 3-0-9 units
6.525 | Medical Device Design |  | prereq:2.008 6.101 6.111 6.115 22.071 or permission of instructor instructors:A. H. Slocum, G. Hom, E. Roche, N. C. Hanumara term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 2.75[J] . Enrollment limited. Same subject as 2.75[J] , HST.552[J] Subject meets with 2.750[J] , 6.025[J] 3-0-9 units
6.542 | Laboratory on the Physiology, Acoustics, and Perception of Speech |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:L. D. Braida, S. Shattuck-Hufnagel, J.-Y. Choi term:G (Spring) description:Experimental investigations of speech processes. Topics include computer-aided waveform analysis and spectral analysis of speech; synthesis of speech; perception and discrimination of speech-like sounds; speech prosody; models of speech recognition; speech development; analysis of atypical speech; and others. Recommended prerequisite: 6.002 , 18.03 , or 24.900 . Same subject as 24.966[J] , HST.712[J] 2-2-8 units
6.544, 6.545 | Advanced Topics in BioEECS |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in BioEECS. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.552 | Signal Processing by the Auditory System: Perception |  | prereq:( 6.003 and (6.041b or 6.431 )) or permission of instructor instructors:L. D. Braida term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Studies information processing performance of the human auditory system in relation to current physiological knowledge. Examines mathematical models for the quantification of auditory-based behavior and the relation between behavior and peripheral physiology, reflecting the tono-topic organization and stochastic responses of the auditory system. Mathematical models of psychophysical relations, incorporating quantitative knowledge of physiological transformations by the peripheral auditory system. Same subject as HST.716[J] 3-0-9 units
6.555 | Biomedical Signal and Image Processing |  | prereq:( 6.041 and ( 2.004 6.003 16.002 or 18.085 )) or permission of instructor instructors:J. Greenberg, E. Adalsteinsson, W. Wells term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject HST.582[J] . Same subject as 16.456[J] , HST.582[J] Subject meets with 6.026[J] , HST.482[J] 3-3-6 units
6.556 | Data Acquisition and Image Reconstruction in MRI |  | prereq:6.011 instructors:E. Adalsteinsson term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Applies analysis of signals and noise in linear systems, sampling, and Fourier properties to magnetic resonance (MR) imaging acquisition and reconstruction. Provides adequate foundation for MR physics to enable study of RF excitation design, efficient Fourier sampling, parallel encoding, reconstruction of non-uniformly sampled data, and the impact of hardware imperfections on reconstruction performance. Surveys active areas of MR research. Assignments include Matlab-based work with real data. Includes visit to a scan site for human MR studies. Same subject as HST.580[J] 3-0-9 units
6.557 | Biomolecular Feedback Systems |  | prereq:biology (gir) 18.03 or permission of instructor instructors:D. Del Vecchio, R. Weiss term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 2.18[J] . Same subject as 2.18[J] Subject meets with 2.180[J] , 6.027[J] 3-0-9 units
6.561 | Fields, Forces, and Flows in Biological Systems |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:M. Bathe, A. J. Grodzinsky term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 20.430[J] . Same subject as 2.795[J] , 10.539[J] , 20.430[J] 3-0-9 units
6.580 | Principles of Synthetic Biology |  | prereq:none instructors:R. Weiss term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject 20.305[J] . Same subject as 20.305[J] Subject meets with 6.589[J] , 20.405[J] 3-0-9 units
6.589 | Principles of Synthetic Biology |  | prereq:none instructors:R. Weiss term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 20.405[J] . Same subject as 20.405[J] Subject meets with 6.580[J] , 20.305[J] 3-0-9 units
6.602 | Fundamentals of Photonics |  | prereq:2.71 6.013 or 8.07 instructors:D. R. Englund term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Fall) description:Covers the fundamentals of optics and the interaction of light and matter, leading to devices such as light emitting diodes, optical amplifiers, and lasers. Topics include classical ray, wave, beam, and Fourier optics; Maxwell's electromagnetic waves; resonators; quantum theory of photons; light-matter interaction; laser amplification; lasers; and semiconductors optoelectronics. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.621 3-0-9 units
6.621 | Fundamentals of Photonics |  | prereq:2.71 6.013 or 8.07 instructors:D. R. Englund term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Covers the fundamentals of optics and the interaction of light and matter, leading to devices such as light emitting diodes, optical amplifiers, and lasers. Topics include classical ray, wave, beam, and Fourier optics; Maxwell's electromagnetic waves; resonators; quantum theory of photons; light-matter interaction; laser amplification; lasers; and semiconductors optoelectronics. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.602 3-0-9 units
6.630 | Electromagnetics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-630-electromagnetics-fall-2006 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:physics ii (gir) and 6.003 instructors:M. R. Watts term:G (Fall) description:Explores electromagnetic phenomena in modern applications, including wireless and optical communications, circuits, computer interconnects and peripherals, microwave communications and radar, antennas, sensors, micro-electromechanical systems, and power generation and transmission. Fundamentals include quasistatic and dynamic solutions to Maxwell's equations; waves, radiation, and diffraction; coupling to media and structures; guided and unguided waves; modal expansions; resonance; acoustic analogs; and forces, power, and energy.  4-0-8 units
6.631 | Optics and Photonics |  | prereq:6.013 or 8.07 instructors:J. G. Fujimoto term:G (Fall) description:Introduction to fundamental concepts and techniques of optics, photonics, and fiber optics. Review of Maxwell's equations, light propagation, and reflection from dielectrics mirrors and filters. Interferometers, filters, and optical imaging systems. Fresnel and Fraunhoffer diffraction theory. Propagation of Gaussian beams and laser resonator design. Optical waveguides and optical fibers. Optical waveguide and photonic devices.  3-0-9 units
6.632 | Electromagnetic Wave Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-632-electromagnetic-wave-theory-spring-2003 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.013 6.630 or 8.07 instructors:M. R. Watts term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Solutions to Maxwell equations and physical interpretation. Topics include waves in media, equivalence principle, duality and complementarity, Huygens' principle, Fresnel and Fraunhofer diffraction, radiation and dyadic Green's functions, scattering, metamaterials, and plasmonics, mode theory, dielectric waveguides, and resonators. Examples deal with limiting cases of electromagnetic theory, multi-port elements, filters and antennas. Discusses current topics in microwave and photonic devices.  3-0-9 units
6.634 | Nonlinear Optics |  | prereq:6.013 or 8.07 instructors:J. G. Fujimoto term:G (Spring) description:Techniques of nonlinear optics with emphasis on fundamentals for research and engineering in optics, photonics, and spectroscopy. Electro optic modulators, harmonic generation, and frequency conversion devices. Nonlinear effects in optical fibers including self-phase modulation, nonlinear wave propagation, and solitons. Interaction of light with matter, laser operation, density matrix techniques, nonlinear spectroscopies, and femtosecond optics. Same subject as 8.431[J] 3-0-9 units
6.637 | Optical Imaging Devices, and Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-161-modern-optics-project-laboratory-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate features:Projects (no examples) prereq:6.003 instructors:C. Warde term:G (Fall) description:Principles of operation and applications of optical imaging devices and systems (includes optical signal generation, transmission, detection, storage, processing and display). Topics include review of the basic properties of electromagnetic waves; coherence and interference; diffraction and holography; Fourier optics; coherent and incoherent imaging and signal processing systems; optical properties of materials; lasers and LEDs; electro-optic and acousto-optic light modulators; photorefractive and liquid-crystal light modulation; spatial light modulators and displays; near-eye and projection displays, holographic and other 3-D display schemes, photodetectors; 2-D and 3-D optical storage technologies; adaptive optical systems; role of optics in next-generation computers. Requires a research paper on a specific contemporary optical imaging topic. Recommended prerequisite: 8.03 . Subject meets with 6.161 3-0-9 units
6.640 | Electromagnetic Fields, Forces and Motion |  | prereq:physics ii (gir) and 18.03 instructors:J. L. Kirtley, Jr., J. H. Lang term:G (Fall) description:Study of electromagnetics and electromagnetic energy conversion leading to an understanding of devices, including electromagnetic sensors, actuators, motors and generators. Quasistatic Maxwell's equations and the Lorentz force law. Studies of the quasistatic fields and their sources through solutions of Poisson's and Laplace's equations. Boundary conditions and multi-region boundary-value problems. Steady-state conduction, polarization, and magnetization. Charge conservation and relaxation, and magnetic induction and diffusion. Extension to moving materials. Electric and magnetic forces and force densities derived from energy, and stress tensors. Extensive use of engineering examples. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.014 3-0-9 units
6.644, 6.645 | Advanced Topics in Applied Physics |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in applied physics. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.685 | Electric Machines | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-685-electric-machines-fall-2013 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions, Instructor insights prereq:( 6.061 or 6.690 ) or permission of instructor instructors:J. L. Kirtley, Jr. term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Fall) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:Treatment of electromechanical transducers, rotating and linear electric machines. Lumped-parameter electromechanics. Power flow using Poynting's theorem, force estimation using the Maxwell stress tensor and Principle of virtual work. Development of analytical techniques for predicting device characteristics: energy conversion density, efficiency; and of system interaction characteristics: regulation, stability, controllability, and response. Use of electric machines in drive systems. Problems taken from current research.  3-0-9 units
6.690 | Introduction to Electric Power Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-061-introduction-to-electric-power-systems-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate features:Online textbooks, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:6.002 and 6.013 instructors:J. L. Kirtley, Jr. term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Electric circuit theory with application to power handling electric circuits. Modeling and behavior of electromechanical devices, including magnetic circuits, motors, and generators. Operational fundamentals of synchronous. Interconnection of generators and motors with electric power transmission and distribution circuits. Power generation, including alternative and sustainable sources. Incorporation of energy storage in power systems. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.061 3-0-9 units
6.695 | Engineering, Economics and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/institute-for-data-systems-and-society/ids-505j-engineering-economics-and-regulation-of-the-electric-power-sector-spring-2010 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: activity (no examples) prereq:14.01 22.081[j] ids.060[j] or permission of instructor instructors:I. Perez-Arriaga term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject IDS.505[J] . Same subject as 15.032[J] , IDS.505[J] Subject meets with IDS.064 3-0-9 units
6.701 | Introduction to Nanoelectronics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-701-introduction-to-nanoelectronics-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate features:Online textbooks, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.003 instructors:M. A. Baldo term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Fall) description:Transistors at the nanoscale. Quantization, wavefunctions, and Schrodinger's equation. Introduction to electronic properties of molecules, carbon nanotubes, and crystals. Energy band formation and the origin of metals, insulators and semiconductors. Ballistic transport, Ohm's law, ballistic versus traditional MOSFETs, fundamental limits to computation. Subject meets with 6.719 4-0-8 units
6.717 | Design and Fabrication of Microelectromechanical Systems |  | prereq:( physics ii (gir) and ( 2.003[j] or 6.003 )) or permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:U (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Provides an introduction to microsystem design. Covers material properties, microfabrication technologies, structural behavior, sensing methods, electromechanical actuation, thermal actuation and control, multi-domain modeling, noise, and microsystem packaging. Applies microsystem modeling, and manufacturing principles to the design and analysis a variety of microscale sensors and actuators (e.g., optical MEMS, bioMEMS, and inertial sensors). Emphasizes modeling and simulation in the design process. Students taking the graduate version complete additional assignments. Same subject as 2.374[J] Subject meets with 2.372[J] , 6.777[J] 3-0-9 units
6.719 | Nanoelectronics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-701-introduction-to-nanoelectronics-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate features:Online textbooks, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.003 instructors:M. A. Baldo term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Meets with undergraduate subject 6.701 , but requires the completion of additional/different homework assignments and or projects. See subject description under 6.701 . Subject meets with 6.701 4-0-8 units
6.720 | Integrated Microelectronic Devices |  | prereq:3.42 or 6.012 instructors:J. A. del Alamo, H. L. Tuller term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Covers physics of microelectronic semiconductor devices for integrated circuit applications. Topics include semiconductor fundamentals, p-n junction, metal-oxide semiconductor structure, metal-semiconductor junction, MOS field-effect transistor, and bipolar junction transistor.  Emphasizes physical understanding of device operation through energy band diagrams and short-channel MOSFET device design and modern device scaling. Familiarity with MATLAB recommended. Same subject as 3.43[J] 4-0-8 units
6.728 | Applied Quantum and Statistical Physics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-728-applied-quantum-and-statistical-physics-fall-2006 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.003 and 18.06 instructors:P. L. Hagelstein term:G (Fall) description:Elementary quantum mechanics and statistical physics. Introduces applied quantum physics. Emphasizes experimental basis for quantum mechanics. Applies Schrodinger's equation to the free particle, tunneling, the harmonic oscillator, and hydrogen atom. Variational methods. Elementary statistical physics; Fermi-Dirac, Bose-Einstein, and Boltzmann distribution functions. Simple models for metals, semiconductors, and devices such as electron microscopes, scanning tunneling microscope, thermonic emitters, atomic force microscope, and more.  4-0-8 units
6.730 | Physics for Solid-State Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-730-physics-for-solid-state-applications-spring-2003 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples prereq:6.013 and 6.728 instructors:Q. Hu, R. Ram term:G (Spring) description:Classical and quantum models of electrons and lattice vibrations in solids, emphasizing physical models for elastic properties, electronic transport, and heat capacity. Crystal lattices, electronic energy band structures, phonon dispersion relations, effective mass theorem, semiclassical equations of motion, electron scattering and semiconductor optical properties. Band structure and transport properties of selected semiconductors. Connection of quantum theory of solids with quasi-Fermi levels and Boltzmann transport used in device modeling.  5-0-7 units
6.731 | Semiconductor Optoelectronics: Theory and Design |  | prereq:6.012 and 6.728 instructors:R. J. Ram term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Focuses on the physics of the interaction of photons with semiconductor materials. Uses the band theory of solids to calculate the absorption and gain of semiconductor media; and uses rate equation formalism to develop the concepts of laser threshold, population inversion, and modulation response. Presents theory and design for photodetectors, solar cells, modulators, amplifiers, and lasers. Introduces noise models for semiconductor devices, and applications of optoelectronic devices to fiber optic communications.  3-0-9 units
6.732 | Physics of Solids |  | prereq:6.730 or 8.231 instructors:Q. Hu term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Continuation of 6.730 emphasizing applications-related physical issues in solids. Topics include: electronic structure and energy band diagrams of semiconductors, metals, and insulators; Fermi surfaces; dynamics of electrons under electric and magnetic fields; classical diffusive transport phenomena such as electrical and thermal conduction and thermoelectric phenomena; quantum transport in tunneling and ballistic devices; optical properties of metals, semiconductors, and insulators; impurities and excitons; photon-lattice interactions; Kramers-Kronig relations; optoelectronic devices based on interband and intersubband transitions; magnetic properties of solids; exchange energy and magnetic ordering; magneto-oscillatory phenomena; quantum Hall effect; superconducting phenomena and simple models.  4-0-8 units
6.735, 6.736 | Advanced Topics in Materials, Devices, and Nanotechnology |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in materials, devices, and nanotechnology. Specific focus varies from year to year.  3-0-9 units
6.774 | Physics of Microfabrication: Front End Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-774-physics-of-microfabrication-front-end-processing-fall-2004 | level:Graduate features:Audio lectures prereq:6.152[j] instructors:J. L. Hoyt, L. R. Reif term:G (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Presents advanced physical models and practical aspects of front-end microfabrication processes, such as oxidation, diffusion, ion implantation, chemical vapor deposition, atomic layer deposition, etching, and epitaxy. Covers topics relevant to CMOS, bipolar, and optoelectronic device fabrication, including high k gate dielectrics, gate etching, implant-damage enhanced diffusion, advanced metrology, stress effects on oxidation, non-planar and nanowire device fabrication, SiGe and fabrication of process-induced strained Si. Exposure to CMOS process integration concepts, and impacts of processing on device characteristics. Students use modern process simulation tools.  3-0-9 units
6.775 | CMOS Analog and Mixed-Signal Circuit Design |  | prereq:6.301 instructors:H. S. Lee, R. Han term:G (Spring) description:A detailed exposition of the principles involved in designing and optimizing analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS technologies. Small-signal and large-signal models. Systemic methodology for device sizing and biasing. Basic circuit building blocks. Operational amplifier design. Large signal considerations. Principles of switched capacitor networks including switched-capacitor and continuous-time integrated filters. Basic and advanced A/D and D/A converters, delta-sigma modulators, RF and other signal processing circuits. Design projects on op amps and subsystems are a required part of the subject.  3-0-9 units
6.776 | High Speed Communication Circuits | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-776-high-speed-communication-circuits-spring-2005 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.301 instructors:R. Han term:G (Fall) description:Principles and techniques of high-speed integrated circuits used in wireless/wireline data links and remote sensing. On-chip passive component design of inductors, capacitors, and antennas. Analysis of distributed effects, such as transmission line modeling, S-parameters, and Smith chart. Transceiver architectures and circuit blocks, which include low-noise amplifiers, mixers, voltage-controlled oscillators, power amplifiers, and frequency dividers. Involves IC/EM simulation and laboratory projects.  3-3-6 units
6.777 | Design and Fabrication of Microelectromechanical Systems |  | prereq:( physics ii (gir) and ( 2.003[j] or 6.003 )) or permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Provides an introduction to microsystem design. Covers material properties, microfabrication technologies, structural behavior, sensing methods, electromechanical actuation, thermal actuation and control, multi-domain modeling, noise, and microsystem packaging. Applies microsystem modeling, and manufacturing principles to the design and analysis a variety of microscale sensors and actuators (e.g., optical MEMS, bioMEMS, and inertial sensors). Emphasizes modeling and simulation in the design process. Students taking the graduate version complete additional assignments. Same subject as 2.372[J] Subject meets with 2.374[J] , 6.717[J] 3-0-9 units
6.780 | Control of Manufacturing Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-780-semiconductor-manufacturing-spring-2003 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Assignments: written (no examples), Exams (no solutions) prereq:2.008 6.041 or 6.152[j] instructors:D. E. Hardt, D. S. Boning term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 2.830[J] . Same subject as 2.830[J] 3-0-9 units
6.781 | Nanostructure Fabrication |  | prereq:( 2.710 6.152[j] or 6.161 ) or permission of instructor instructors:K. K. Berggren term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Describes current techniques used to analyze and fabricate nanometer-length-scale structures and devices. Emphasizes imaging and patterning of nanostructures, including fundamentals of optical, electron (scanning, transmission, and tunneling), and atomic-force microscopy; optical, electron, ion, and nanoimprint lithography, templated self-assembly, and resist technology. Surveys substrate characterization and preparation, facilities, and metrology requirements for nanolithography. Addresses nanodevice processing methods, such as liquid and plasma etching, lift-off, electroplating, and ion-implant. Discusses applications in nanoelectronics, nanomaterials, and nanophotonics. Same subject as 2.391[J] 4-0-8 units
6.801 | Machine Vision | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-801-machine-vision-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Exams and solutions prereq:6.003 or permission of instructor instructors:B. K. P. Horn term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Fall) description:Deriving a symbolic description of the environment from an image. Understanding physics of image formation. Image analysis as an inversion problem. Binary image processing and filtering of images as preprocessing steps. Recovering shape, lightness, orientation, and motion. Using constraints to reduce the ambiguity. Photometric stereo and extended Gaussian sphere. Applications to robotics; intelligent interaction of machines with their environment. Students taking the graduate version complete different assignments. Subject meets with 6.866 3-0-9 units
6.802 | Computational Systems Biology: Deep Learning in the Life Sciences |  | prereq:( 7.05 and ( 6.0002 or 6.01 )) or permission of instructor instructors:D. K. Gifford term:U (Spring) description:Presents innovative approaches to computational problems in the life sciences, focusing on deep learning-based approaches with comparisons to conventional methods. Topics include protein-DNA interaction, chromatin accessibility, regulatory variant interpretation, medical image understanding, medical record understanding, therapeutic design, and experiment design (the choice and interpretation of interventions). Focuses on machine learning model selection, robustness, and interpretation. Teams complete a multidisciplinary final research project using TensorFlow or other framework. Provides a comprehensive introduction to each life sciences problem, but relies upon students understanding probabilistic problem formulations. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Same subject as 20.390[J] Subject meets with 6.874[J] , 20.490 , HST.506[J] 3-0-9 units
6.803 | The Human Intelligence Enterprise | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-803-the-human-intelligence-enterprise-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate features:Projects (no examples), Assignments: written (no examples) prereq:6.034 or permission of instructor instructors:P. H. Winston term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Analyzes seminal work directed at the development of a computational understanding of human intelligence, such as work on learning, language, vision, event representation, commonsense reasoning, self reflection, story understanding, and analogy. Reviews visionary ideas of Turing, Minsky, and other influential thinkers. Examines the implications of work on brain scanning, developmental psychology, and cognitive psychology. Emphasis on discussion and analysis of original papers. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Enrollment limited. Subject meets with 6.833 3-0-9 units
6.804 | Computational Cognitive Science |  | prereq:6.008 6.036 6.041 9.40 18.05 or permission of instructor instructors:J. Tenenbaum term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject 9.66[J] . Same subject as 9.66[J] Subject meets with 9.660 3-0-9 units
6.805 | Foundations of Information Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-805-ethics-and-the-law-on-the-electronic-frontier-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: activity (no examples), Assignments: written (no examples), Exams (no solutions) prereq:permission of instructor instructors:H. Abelson, M. Fischer, D. Weitzner term:U (Fall) description:Studies the growth of computer and communications technology and the new legal and ethical challenges that reflect tensions between individual rights and societal needs. Topics include computer crime; intellectual property restrictions on software; encryption, privacy, and national security; academic freedom and free speech. Students meet and question technologists, activists, law enforcement agents, journalists, and legal experts. Instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Enrollment limited. Same subject as STS.085[J] Subject meets with STS.487 3-0-9 units. HASS-S
6.806 | Advanced Natural Language Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-805-ethics-and-the-law-on-the-electronic-frontier-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: activity (no examples), Assignments: written (no examples), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.046[j] or permission of instructor instructors:R. A. Barzilay term:U (Spring) description:Introduces the study of human language from a computational perspective, including syntactic, semantic and discourse processing models. Emphasizes machine learning methods and algorithms. Uses these methods and models in applications such as syntactic parsing, information extraction, statistical machine translation, dialogue systems, and summarization. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.864 3-0-9 units
6.807 | Computational Fabrication |  | prereq:6.837 or permission of instructor instructors:W. Matusik term:U (Fall) description:Introduces computational aspects of computer-aided design and manufacturing. Explores relevant methods in the context of additive manufacturing (e.g., 3D printing). Topics include computer graphics (geometry modeling, solid modeling, procedural modeling), physically-based simulation (kinematics, finite element method), 3D scanning/geometry processing, and an overview of 3D fabrication methods. Exposes students to the latest research in computational fabrication.  3-0-9 units
6.808 | Mobile and Sensor Computing |  | prereq:6.033 or permission of instructor instructors:H. Balakrishnan, S. Madden, F. Adib term:U (Spring) description:Focuses on "Internet of Things" (IoT) systems and technologies, sensing, computing, and communication. Explores fundamental design and implementation issues in the engineering of mobile and sensor computing systems. Topics include battery-free sensors, seeing through wall, robotic sensors, vital sign sensors (breathing, heartbeats, emotions), sensing in cars and autonomous vehicles, subsea IoT, sensor security, positioning technologies (including GPS and indoor WiFi), inertial sensing (accelerometers, gyroscopes, inertial measurement units, dead-reckoning), embedded and distributed system architectures, sensing with radio signals, sensing with microphones and cameras, wireless sensor networks, embedded and distributed system architectures, mobile libraries and APIs to sensors, and application case studies. Includes readings from research literature, as well as laboratory assignments and a significant term project. Same subject as MAS.453[J] 3-0-9 units
6.809 | Interactive Music Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/music-and-theater-arts/21m-385-interactive-music-systems-fall-2016 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: presentations (no examples) prereq:( 6.009 and 21m.301 ) or permission of instructor instructors:E. Egozy, L. Kaelbling term:U (Fall, Spring) description:See description under subject 21M.385[J] . Limited to 18. Same subject as 21M.385[J] 3-0-9 units. HASS-A
6.810 | Engineering Interactive Technologies |  | prereq:6.031 6.08 6.111 6.115 or permission of instructor instructors:S. Mueller term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Fall) description:Provides instruction in building cutting-edge interactive technologies, explains the underlying engineering concepts, and shows how those technologies evolved over time. Students use a studio format (i.e., extended periods of time) for constructing software and hardware prototypes. Topics include interactive technologies, such as multi-touch, augmented reality, haptics, wearables, and shape-changing interfaces. In a group project, students build their own interactive hardware/software prototypes and present them in a live demo at the end of term. Enrollment may be limited.  3-3-6 units
6.811 | Principles and Practice of Assistive Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-811-principles-and-practice-of-assistive-technology-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate features:Faculty introduction - video, Captions/transcript, Demonstration - video, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments: activity with examples, Assignments: media with examples, Assignments: written (no examples), Instructor insights prereq:permission of instructor instructors:R. C. Miller, J. E. Greenberg, J. J. Leonard term:U (Fall) description:Students work closely with people with disabilities to develop assistive and adaptive technologies that help them live more independently. Covers design methods and problem-solving strategies; human factors; human-machine interfaces; community perspectives; social and ethical aspects; and assistive technology for motor, cognitive, perceptual, and age-related impairments. Prior knowledge of one or more of the following areas useful: software; electronics; human-computer interaction; cognitive science; mechanical engineering; control; or MIT hobby shop, MIT PSC, or other relevant independent project experience. Same subject as 2.78[J] , HST.420[J] 2-4-6 units
6.812 | Hardware Architecture for Deep Learning (New) |  | prereq:6.003 or 6.004 instructors:V. Sze, J. Emer term:U (Spring) description:Introduction to the design and implementation of hardware architectures for efficient processing of deep learning algorithms in AI systems. Topics include basics of deep learning, programmable platforms, accelerators, co-optimization of algorithms and hardware, training, support for complex networks, and applications of advanced technologies. Includes labs involving modeling and analysis of hardware architectures, building systems using popular deep learning tools and platforms (CPU, GPU, FPGA), and an open-ended design project. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.825 3-3-6 units
6.814 | Database Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-830-database-systems-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams and solutions prereq:( 6.033 and ( 6.006 or 6.046[j] )) or permission of instructor instructors:S. R. Madden term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Topics related to the engineering and design of database systems, including data models; database and schema design; schema normalization and integrity constraints; query processing; query optimization and cost estimation; transactions; recovery; concurrency control; isolation and consistency; distributed, parallel and heterogeneous databases; adaptive databases; trigger systems; pub-sub systems; semi structured data and XML querying. Lecture and readings from original research papers. Semester-long project and paper. Students taking graduate version complete different assignments. Enrollment may be limited. Subject meets with 6.830 3-0-9 units
6.815 | Digital and Computational Photography |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) and 6.009 instructors:F. P. Durand term:U (Fall) description:Presents fundamentals and applications of hardware and software techniques used in digital and computational photography, with an emphasis on software methods. Provides sufficient background to implement solutions to photographic challenges and opportunities. Topics include cameras and image formation, image processing and image representations, high-dynamic-range imaging, human visual perception and color, single view 3-D model reconstruction, morphing, data-rich photography, super-resolution, and image-based rendering. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.865 3-0-9 units
6.816 | Multicore Programming |  | prereq:6.006 instructors:N. Shavit term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Introduces principles and core techniques for programming multicore machines. Topics include locking, scalability, concurrent data structures, multiprocessor scheduling, load balancing, and state-of-the-art synchronization techniques, such as transactional memory. Includes sequence of programming assignments on a large multicore machine, culminating with the design of a highly concurrent application. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.836 4-0-8 units
6.817 | Principles of Autonomy and Decision Making (New) |  | prereq:6.0002 or 6.01 instructors:B. C. Williams term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject 16.410[J] . Same subject as 16.410[J] Subject meets with 6.877[J] , 16.413[J] 4-0-8 units
6.818 | Dynamic Computer Language Engineering (New) |  | prereq:6.004 or 6.031 instructors:M. Carbin term:U (Spring) description:Studies the design and implementation of modern, dynamic programming languages. Topics include fundamental approaches for parsing, semantics and interpretation, virtual machines, garbage collection, just-in-time machine code generation, and optimization. Includes a semester-long, group project that delivers a virtual machine that spans all of these topics.  4-4-4 units
6.819 | Advances in Computer Vision |  | prereq:18.06 and (6.041b or 6.042[j] ) instructors:W. T. Freeman, A. Torralba term:U (Fall) description:Advanced topics in computer vision with a focus on the use of machine learning techniques and applications in graphics and human-computer interface. Covers image representations, texture models, structure-from-motion algorithms, Bayesian techniques, object and scene recognition, tracking, shape modeling, and image databases. Applications may include face recognition, multimodal interaction, interactive systems, cinematic special effects, and photorealistic rendering. Covers topics complementary to 6.801 . Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.869 3-0-9 units
6.820 | Foundations of Program Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-820-fundamentals-of-program-analysis-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: programming (no examples) prereq:6.035 instructors:A. Solar-Lezama term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Fall) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:Presents major principles and techniques for program analysis. Includes formal semantics, type systems and type-based program analysis, abstract interpretation and model checking and synthesis. Emphasis on Haskell and Ocaml, but no prior experience in these languages is assumed. Student assignments include implementing of techniques covered in class, including building simple verifiers.  3-0-9 units
6.822 | Formal Reasoning About Programs |  | prereq:6.031 and 6.042[j] instructors:A. Chlipala term:G (Spring) description:Surveys techniques for rigorous mathematical reasoning about correctness of software, emphasizing commonalities across approaches. Introduces interactive computer theorem proving with the Coq proof assistant, which is used for all assignments, providing immediate feedback on soundness of logical arguments. Covers common program-proof techniques, including operational semantics, model checking, abstract interpretation, type systems, program logics, and their applications to functional, imperative, and concurrent programs. Develops a common conceptual framework based on invariants, abstraction, and modularity applied to state and labeled transition systems.  3-0-9 units
6.823 | Computer System Architecture | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-823-computer-system-architecture-fall-2005 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.004 instructors:J. S. Emer, D. Sanchez term:G (Spring) description:Introduction to the principles underlying modern computer architecture. Emphasizes the relationship among technology, hardware organization, and programming systems in the evolution of computer architecture. Topics include pipelined, out-of-order, and speculative execution; caches, virtual memory and exception handling, superscalar, very long instruction word (VLIW), vector, and multithreaded processors; on-chip networks, memory models, synchronization, and cache coherence protocols for multiprocessors.  4-0-8 units
6.824 | Distributed Computer Systems Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-824-distributed-computer-systems-engineering-spring-2006 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) prereq:6.033 and permission of instructor instructors:R. T. Morris, M. F. Kaashoek term:G (Spring) description:Abstractions and implementation techniques for engineering distributed systems: remote procedure call, threads and locking, client/server, peer-to-peer, consistency, fault tolerance, and security. Readings from current literature. Individual laboratory assignments culminate in the construction of a fault-tolerant and scalable network file system. Programming experience with C/C++ required. Enrollment limited.  3-0-9 units
6.825 | Hardware Architecture for Deep Learning (New) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-825-techniques-in-artificial-intelligence-sma-5504-fall-2002 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: programming (no examples) prereq:6.003 or 6.004 instructors:V. Sze, J. Emer term:G (Spring) description:Introduction to the design and implementation of hardware architectures for efficient processing of deep learning algorithms in AI systems. Topics include basics of deep learning, programmable platforms, accelerators, co-optimization of algorithms and hardware, training, support for complex networks, and applications of advanced technologies. Includes labs involving modeling and analysis of hardware architectures, building systems using popular deep learning tools and platforms (CPU, GPU, FPGA), and an open-ended design project. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.812 3-3-6 units
6.826 | Principles of Computer Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-826-principles-of-computer-systems-spring-2002 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:permission of instructor instructors:M. F. Kaashoek, B. Lampson, N. B. Zeldovich term:G (Fall) description:Introduction to the basic principles of computer systems with emphasis on the use of rigorous techniques as an aid to understanding and building modern computing systems. Particular attention paid to concurrent and distributed systems. Topics include: specification and verification, concurrent algorithms, synchronization, naming, Networking, replication techniques (including distributed cache management), and principles and algorithms for achieving reliability.  3-0-9 units
6.828 | Operating System Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-828-operating-system-engineering-fall-2012 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams and solutions prereq:6.031 and 6.033 instructors:M. F. Kaashoek term:G (Fall) description:Fundamental design and implementation issues in the engineering of operating systems. Lectures based on the study of a symmetric multiprocessor version of UNIX version 6 and research papers. Topics include virtual memory; file system; threads; context switches; kernels; interrupts; system calls; interprocess communication; coordination, and interaction between software and hardware. Individual laboratory assignments accumulate in the construction of a minimal operating system (for an x86-based personal computer) that implements the basic operating system abstractions and a shell. Knowledge of programming in the C language is a prerequisite.  3-6-3 units
6.829 | Computer Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-829-computer-networks-fall-2002 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:6.033 or permission of instructor instructors:H. Balakrishnan, D. Katabi term:G (Fall) description:Topics on the engineering and analysis of network protocols and architecture, including architectural principles for designing heterogeneous networks; transport protocols; Internet routing; router design; congestion control and network resource management; wireless networks; network security; naming; overlay and peer-to-peer networks. Readings from original research papers. Semester-long project and paper.  4-0-8 units
6.830 | Database Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-830-database-systems-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams and solutions prereq:( 6.033 and ( 6.006 or 6.046[j] )) or permission of instructor instructors:S. R. Madden term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Topics related to the engineering and design of database systems, including data models; database and schema design; schema normalization and integrity constraints; query processing; query optimization and cost estimation; transactions; recovery; concurrency control; isolation and consistency; distributed, parallel and heterogeneous databases; adaptive databases; trigger systems; pub-sub systems; semi structured data and XML querying. Lecture and readings from original research papers. Semester-long project and paper. Students taking graduate version complete different assignments. Enrollment may be limited. Subject meets with 6.814 3-0-9 units
6.832 | Underactuated Robotics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-832-underactuated-robotics-spring-2009 | level:Graduate features:Video lectures, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Assignments: programming with examples, Exams (no solutions) prereq:2.12 2.165[j] 6.141[j] or permission of instructor instructors:R. Tedrake term:G (Spring) description:Covers nonlinear dynamics and control of underactuated mechanical systems, with an emphasis on computational methods. Topics include the nonlinear dynamics of robotic manipulators, applied optimal and robust control and motion planning. Discussions include examples from biology and applications to legged locomotion, compliant manipulation, underwater robots, and flying machines.  3-0-9 units
6.833 | The Human Intelligence Enterprise | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-803-the-human-intelligence-enterprise-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate features:Projects (no examples), Assignments: written (no examples) prereq:6.034 instructors:P. H. Winston term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Analyzes seminal work directed at the development of a computational understanding of human intelligence, such as work on learning, language, vision, event representation, commonsense reasoning, self reflection, story understanding, and analogy. Reviews visionary ideas of Turing, Minsky, and other influential thinkers. Examines the implications of work on brain scanning, developmental psychology, and cognitive psychology. Emphasis on discussion and analysis of original papers. Requires the completion of additional exercises and a substantial term project. Enrollment limited. Subject meets with 6.803 3-0-9 units
6.834 | Cognitive Robotics |  | prereq:( 6.034 or 16.413[j] ) and ( 6.042[j] 16.09 or 6.041 ) instructors:B. C. Williams term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 16.412[J] . Enrollment may be limited. Same subject as 16.412[J] 3-0-9 units
6.835 | Intelligent Multimodal User Interfaces |  | prereq:6.031 6.034 or permission of instructor instructors:R. Davis term:G (Spring) description:Implementation and evaluation of intelligent multi-modal user interfaces, taught from a combination of hands-on exercises and papers from the original literature. Topics include basic technologies for handling speech, vision, pen-based interaction, and other modalities, as well as various techniques for combining modalities. Substantial readings and a term project, where students build a program that illustrates one or more of the themes of the course.  3-0-9 units
6.836 | Multicore Programming |  | prereq:6.006 instructors:N. Shavit term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Introduces principles and core techniques for programming multicore machines. Topics include locking, scalability, concurrent data structures, multiprocessor scheduling, load balancing, and state-of-the-art synchronization techniques, such as transactional memory. Includes sequence of programming assignments on a large multicore machine, culminating with the design of a highly concurrent application. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.816 4-0-8 units
6.837 | Computer Graphics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-837-computer-graphics-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: programming (no examples), Exams (no solutions) prereq:( calculus ii (gir) and 6.031 ) or permission of instructor instructors:F. P. Durand, W. Matusik, J. Solomon term:U (Fall) description:Introduction to computer graphics algorithms, software and hardware. Topics include ray tracing, the graphics pipeline, transformations, texture mapping, shadows, sampling, global illumination, splines, animation and color.  3-0-9 units
6.838 | Shape Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-838-algorithms-for-computer-animation-fall-2002 | level:Graduate features: prereq:calculus ii (gir) 18.06 and ( 6.837 or 6.869 ) instructors:J. Solomon term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Introduces mathematical, algorithmic, and statistical tools needed to analyze geometric data and to apply geometric techniques to data analysis, with applications to fields such as computer graphics, machine learning, computer vision, medical imaging, and architecture. Potential topics include applied introduction to differential geometry, discrete notions of curvature, metric embedding, geometric PDE via the finite element method (FEM) and discrete exterior calculus (DEC),; computational spectral geometry and relationship to graph-based learning, correspondence and mapping, level set method, descriptor, shape collections, optimal transport, and vector field design.  3-0-9 units
6.839 | Advanced Computer Graphics |  | prereq:6.031 6.837 18.06 or permission of instructor instructors:W. Matusik term:G (Fall) description:A graduate level course investigates computational problems in rendering, animation, and geometric modeling. The course draws on advanced techniques from computational geometry, applied mathematics, statistics, scientific computing and other. Substantial programming experience required.  3-0-9 units
6.840 | Theory of Computation |  | prereq:6.042[j] or 18.200 instructors:M. Sipser term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 18.4041[J] . Same subject as 18.4041[J] Subject meets with 18.404 4-0-8 units
6.841 | Advanced Complexity Theory |  | prereq:18.404 instructors:R. Williams term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Fall) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:See description under subject 18.405[J] . Same subject as 18.405[J] 3-0-9 units
6.842 | Randomness and Computation |  | prereq:6.046[j] and 18.4041[j] instructors:R. Rubinfeld term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Spring) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:The power and sources of randomness in computation. Connections and applications to computational complexity, computational learning theory, cryptography and combinatorics. Topics include: probabilistic proofs, uniform generation and approximate counting, Fourier analysis of Boolean functions, computational learning theory, expander graphs, pseudorandom generators, derandomization.  3-0-9 units
6.844 | Artificial Intelligence (New) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-844-computability-theory-of-and-with-scheme-spring-2003 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.0001 instructors:P. H. Winston term:G (Fall) description:Introduces representations, methods, and architectures used to build applications and to account for human intelligence from a computational point of view. Covers applications of rule chaining, constraint propagation, constrained search, inheritance, statistical inference, and other problem-solving paradigms. Also addresses applications of identification trees, neural nets, genetic algorithms, support-vector machines, boosting, and other learning paradigms. Considers what separates human intelligence from that of other animals. Students taking  graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.034 4-3-5 units
6.845 | Quantum Complexity Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-845-quantum-complexity-theory-fall-2010 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.045[j] 18.4041[j] and 18.435[j] instructors:Staff term:G (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Introduction to quantum computational complexity theory, the study of the fundamental capabilities and limitations of quantum computers. Topics include complexity classes, lower bounds, communication complexity, proofs and advice, and interactive proof systems in the quantum world; classical simulation of quantum circuits. The objective is to bring students to the research frontier.  3-0-9 units
6.846 | Parallel Computing |  | prereq:6.004 or permission of instructor instructors:A. Agarwal term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Introduction to parallel and multicore computer architecture and programming. Topics include the design and implementation of multicore processors; networking, video, continuum, particle and graph applications for multicores; communication and synchronization algorithms and mechanisms; locality in parallel computations; computational models, including shared memory, streams, message passing, and data parallel; multicore mechanisms for synchronization, cache coherence, and multithreading. Performance evaluation of multicores; compilation and runtime systems for parallel computing. Substantial project required.  3-0-9 units
6.849 | Geometric Folding Algorithms: Linkages, Origami, Polyhedra | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-849-geometric-folding-algorithms-linkages-origami-polyhedra-fall-2012 | level:Graduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Instructor insights prereq:6.046[j] or permission of instructor instructors:E. D. Demaine term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Covers discrete geometry and algorithms underlying the reconfiguration of foldable structures, with applications to robotics, manufacturing, and biology. Linkages made from one-dimensional rods connected by hinges: constructing polynomial curves, characterizing rigidity, characterizing unfoldable versus locked, protein folding. Folding two-dimensional paper (origami): characterizing flat foldability, algorithmic origami design, one-cut magic trick. Unfolding and folding three-dimensional polyhedra: edge unfolding, vertex unfolding, gluings, Alexandrov's Theorem, hinged dissections.  3-0-9 units
6.850 | Geometric Computing |  | prereq:6.046[j] instructors:P. Indyk term:G (Spring) description:Introduction to the design and analysis of algorithms for geometric problems, in low- and high-dimensional spaces. Algorithms: convex hulls, polygon triangulation, Delaunay triangulation, motion planning, pattern matching. Geometric data structures: point location, Voronoi diagrams, Binary Space Partitions. Geometric problems in higher dimensions: linear programming, closest pair problems. High-dimensional nearest neighbor search and low-distortion embeddings between metric spaces. Geometric algorithms for massive data sets: external memory and streaming algorithms. Geometric optimization.  3-0-9 units
6.851 | Advanced Data Structures | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-851-advanced-data-structures-spring-2012 | level:Graduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Instructor insights prereq:6.046[j] instructors:E. D. Demaine term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:More advanced and powerful data structures for answering several queries on the same data. Such structures are crucial in particular for designing efficient algorithms. Dictionaries; hashing; search trees. Self-adjusting data structures; linear search; splay trees; dynamic optimality. Integer data structures; word RAM. Predecessor problem; van Emde Boas priority queues; y-fast trees; fusion trees. Lower bounds; cell-probe model; round elimination. Dynamic graphs; link-cut trees; dynamic connectivity. Strings; text indexing; suffix arrays; suffix trees. Static data structures; compact arrays; rank and select. Succinct data structures; tree encodings; implicit data structures. External-memory and cache-oblivious data structures; B-trees; buffer trees; tree layout; ordered-file maintenance. Temporal data structures; persistence; retroactivity.  3-0-9 units
6.852 | Distributed Algorithms |  | prereq:6.046[j] instructors:N. A. Lynch term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Design and analysis of concurrent algorithms, emphasizing those suitable for use in distributed networks. Process synchronization, allocation of computational resources, distributed consensus, distributed graph algorithms, election of a leader in a network, distributed termination, deadlock detection, concurrency control, communication, and clock synchronization. Special consideration given to issues of efficiency and fault tolerance. Formal models and proof methods for distributed computation. Same subject as 18.437[J] 3-0-9 units
6.853 | Topics in Algorithmic Game Theory |  | prereq:6.006 or 6.046[j] instructors:K. Daskalakis term:G (Spring) description:Presents research topics at the interface of computer science and game theory, with an emphasis on algorithms and computational complexity. Explores the types of game-theoretic tools that are applicable to computer systems, the loss in system performance due to the conflicts of interest of users and administrators, and the design of systems whose performance is robust with respect to conflicts of interest inside the system. Algorithmic focus is on algorithms for equilibria, the complexity of equilibria and fixed points, algorithmic tools in mechanism design, learning in games, and the price of anarchy.  3-0-9 units
6.854 | Advanced Algorithms |  | prereq:6.046[j] and ( 6.042[j] 18.600 or 6.041 ) instructors:A. Moitra, D. R. Karger term:G (Fall) description:First-year graduate subject in algorithms. Emphasizes fundamental algorithms and advanced methods of algorithmic design, analysis, and implementation. Surveys a variety of computational models and the algorithms for them. Data structures, network flows, linear programming, computational geometry, approximation algorithms, online algorithms, parallel algorithms, external memory, streaming algorithms. Same subject as 18.415[J] 5-0-7 units
6.856 | Randomized Algorithms |  | prereq:( 6.041 or 6.042[j] ) and ( 6.046[j] or 6.854[j] ) instructors:D. R. Karger term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Studies how randomization can be used to make algorithms simpler and more efficient via random sampling, random selection of witnesses, symmetry breaking, and Markov chains. Models of randomized computation. Data structures: hash tables, and skip lists. Graph algorithms: minimum spanning trees, shortest paths, and minimum cuts. Geometric algorithms: convex hulls, linear programming in fixed or arbitrary dimension. Approximate counting; parallel algorithms; online algorithms; derandomization techniques; and tools for probabilistic analysis of algorithms. Same subject as 18.416[J] 5-0-7 units
6.857 | Network and Computer Security | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-857-network-and-computer-security-spring-2014 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Assignments: programming (no examples) prereq:6.033 and 6.042[j] instructors:R. L. Rivest, Y. Kalai, term:G (Spring) description:Emphasis on applied cryptography and may include: basic notion of systems security, cryptographic hash functions, symmetric cryptography (one-time pad, stream ciphers, block ciphers), cryptanalysis, secret-sharing, authentication codes, public-key cryptography (encryption, digital signatures), public-key attacks, elliptic curve cryptography; pairing functions, fully homomorphic encryption, differential privacy, bitcoin, viruses, electronic voting, Assignments include a group final project. Topics may vary year to year.  4-0-8 units
6.858 | Computer Systems Security | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-858-computer-systems-security-fall-2014 | level:Graduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Exams and solutions prereq:6.031 and 6.033 instructors:N. B. Zeldovich term:G (Spring) description:Design and implementation of secure computer systems. Lectures cover attacks that compromise security as well as techniques for achieving security, based on recent research papers. Topics include operating system security, privilege separation, capabilities, language-based security, cryptographic network protocols, trusted hardware, and security in web applications and mobile phones. Labs involve implementing and compromising a web application that sandboxes arbitrary code, and a group final project.  3-6-3 units
6.860 | Statistical Learning Theory and Applications |  | prereq:6.041 6.867 18.06 or permission of instructor instructors:T. Poggio, L. Rosasco term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 9.520[J] . Same subject as 9.520[J] 3-0-9 units
6.861 | Aspects of a Computational Theory of Intelligence |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:T. Poggio, S. Ullman term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:See description under subject 9.523[J] . Same subject as 9.523[J] 3-0-9 units
6.862 | Applied Machine Learning |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:R. Barzilay, T. Jaakkola, L. Kaelbling term:G (Fall, Spring) description:Introduces principles, algorithms, and applications of machine learning from the point of view of modeling and prediction; formulation of learning problems; representation, over-fitting, generalization; classification, regression, reinforcement learning; and methods such as linear classifiers, feed-forward, convolutional, and recurrent networks. Students taking graduate version complete different assignments. Meets with 6.036 when offered concurrently. Recommended prerequisites: 18.06 and 6.006 . Enrollment limited; no listeners.  4-0-8 units
6.863 | Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge |  | prereq:6.034 instructors:R. C. Berwick term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Explores the relationship between the computer representation and acquisition of knowledge and the structure of human language, its acquisition, and hypotheses about its differentiating uniqueness. Emphasizes development of analytical skills necessary to judge the computational implications of grammatical formalisms and their role in connecting human intelligence to computational intelligence. Uses concrete examples to illustrate particular computational issues in this area. Same subject as 9.611[J] 3-3-6 units
6.864 | Advanced Natural Language Processing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-864-advanced-natural-language-processing-fall-2005 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.046[j] or permission of instructor instructors:R. A. Barzilay term:G (Spring) description:Introduces the study of human language from a computational perspective, including syntactic, semantic and discourse processing models. Emphasizes machine learning methods and algorithms. Uses these methods and models in applications such as syntactic parsing, information extraction, statistical machine translation, dialogue systems, and summarization. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.806 3-0-9 units
6.865 | Advanced Computational Photography |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) and 6.031 instructors:F. P. Durand term:G (Fall) description:Presents fundamentals and applications of hardware and software techniques used in digital and computational photography, with an emphasis on software methods. Provides sufficient background to implement solutions to photographic challenges and opportunities. Topics include cameras and image formation, image processing and image representations, high-dynamic-range imaging, human visual perception and color, single view 3-D model reconstruction, morphing, data-rich photography, super-resolution, and image-based rendering. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.815 3-0-9 units
6.866 | Machine Vision | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-801-machine-vision-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Exams and solutions prereq:6.003 or permission of instructor instructors:B. K. P. Horn term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Intensive introduction to the process of generating a symbolic description of the environment from an image. Students expected to attend the 6.801 lectures as well as occasional seminar meetings on special topics. Material presented in 6.801 is supplemented by reading from the literature. Students required to implement a project on a topic of their choice from the material covered. Subject meets with 6.801 3-0-9 units
6.867 | Machine Learning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-867-machine-learning-fall-2006 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:18.06 and (6.041b or 18.600 ) instructors:T. Jaakkola, L. P. Kaelbling term:G (Fall) description:Principles, techniques, and algorithms in machine learning from the point of view of statistical inference; representation, generalization, and model selection; and methods such as linear/additive models, active learning, boosting, support vector machines, non-parametric Bayesian methods, hidden Markov models, Bayesian networks, and convolutional and recurrent neural networks. Recommended prerequisite: 6.036 or other previous experience in machine learning.  3-0-9 units
6.869 | Advances in Computer Vision |  | prereq:18.06 and (6.041b or 6.042[j] ) instructors:W. T. Freeman, A. Torralba term:G (Fall) description:Advanced topics in computer vision with a focus on the use of machine learning techniques and applications in graphics and human-computer interface. Covers image representations, texture models, structure-from-motion algorithms, Bayesian techniques, object and scene recognition, tracking, shape modeling, and image databases. Applications may include face recognition, multimodal interaction, interactive systems, cinematic special effects, and photorealistic rendering. Covers topics complementary to 6.866 . Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.819 3-0-9 units
6.870 | Advanced Topics in Computer Vision |  | prereq:6.801 6.869 or permission of instructor instructors:W. T. Freeman, B. K. P. Horn, A. Torralba term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Seminar exploring advanced research topics in the field of computer vision; focus varies with lecturer. Typically structured around discussion of assigned research papers and presentations by students. Example research areas explored in this seminar include learning in vision, computational imaging techniques, multimodal human-computer interaction, biomedical imaging, representation and estimation methods used in modern computer vision.  3-0-9 units
6.871 | Machine Learning for Healthcare (New) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-871-knowledge-based-applications-systems-spring-2005 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: activity (no examples) prereq:6.034 6.036 6.438 6.806 6.867 or 9.520[j] instructors:D. Sontag, P. Szolovits term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject HST.956[J] . Limited to 55. Same subject as HST.956[J] 4-0-8 units
6.872 | Biomedical Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-950j-biomedical-computing-fall-2010 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: presentations (no examples) prereq:6.034 6.036 or permission of instructor instructors:G. Alterovitz, P. Szolovits term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Analyzes computational needs of clinical medicine, reviews systems and approaches that have been used to support those needs, and the relationship between clinical data and gene and protein measurements to support precision medicine. Topics include the nature of clinical data, architecture and design of healthcare information systems, privacy and security issues, medical expert systems, predictive models and machine learning from big data in healthcare, and an introduction to bioinformatics. Case studies and guest lectures describe contemporary institutions, systems, and research projects. Term project using large clinical and genomic data sets integrates classroom topics. Same subject as HST.950[J] 3-0-9 units
6.874 | Computational Systems Biology: Deep Learning in the Life Sciences |  | prereq:biology (gir) and ( 18.600 or 6.041 ) instructors:D. K. Gifford term:Acad Year 2019-2020: G (Spring) Acad Year 2020-2021: Not offered description:Presents innovative approaches to computational problems in the life sciences, focusing on deep learning-based approaches with comparisons to conventional methods. Topics include protein-DNA interaction, chromatin accessibility, regulatory variant interpretation, medical image understanding, medical record understanding, therapeutic design, and experiment design (the choice and interpretation of interventions). Focuses on machine learning model selection, robustness, and interpretation. Teams complete a multidisciplinary final research project using TensorFlow or other framework. Provides a comprehensive introduction to each life sciences problem, but relies upon students understanding probabilistic problem formulations. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Same subject as HST.506[J] Subject meets with 6.802[J] , 20.390[J] , 20.490 3-0-9 units
6.875 | Cryptography and Cryptanalysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-875-cryptography-and-cryptanalysis-spring-2005 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.046[j] instructors:S. Goldwasser, S. Micali, V. Vaikuntanathan term:G (Fall) description:A rigorous introduction to modern cryptography. Emphasis on the fundamental cryptographic primitives of public-key encryption, digital signatures, pseudo-random number generation, and basic protocols and their computational complexity requirements. Same subject as 18.425[J] 3-0-9 units
6.876 | Advanced Topics in Cryptography |  | prereq:6.875[j] instructors:S. Goldwasser, S. Micali, V. Vaikuntanathan term:G (Fall) description:In-depth exploration of recent results in cryptography.  3-0-9 units
6.877 | Principles of Autonomy and Decision Making (New) |  | prereq:6.0002 6.01 or permission of instructor instructors:B. C. Williams term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 16.413[J] . Same subject as 16.413[J] Subject meets with 6.817[J] , 16.410[J] 3-0-9 units
6.878 | Advanced Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-047-computational-biology-fall-2015 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Online textbooks, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:( biology (gir) 6.006 and 6.041 ) or permission of instructor instructors:M. Kellis term:G (Fall) description:See description for 6.047 . Additionally examines recent publications in the areas covered, with research-style assignments. A more substantial final project is expected, which can lead to a thesis and publication. Same subject as HST.507[J] Subject meets with 6.047 4-0-8 units
6.881 | Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-881-computational-personal-genomics-making-sense-of-complete-genomes-spring-2016 | level:Graduate features: prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) description:Advanced study of topics in artificial intelligence. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.882 | Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Spring) description:Advanced study of topics in artificial intelligence. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.883 | Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-883-pervasive-human-centric-computing-sma-5508-spring-2006 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Spring) description:Advanced study of topics in artificial intelligence. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.884 | Advanced Topics in Artificial Intelligence | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-884-complex-digital-systems-spring-2005 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) description:Advanced study of topics in artificial intelligence. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.885-6.888 | Advanced Topics in Computer Systems |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Spring) description:Advanced study of topics in computer systems. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.889-6.893 | Advanced Topics in Theoretical Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in theoretical computer science. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.894-6.896 | Advanced Topics in Graphics and Human-Computer Interfaces |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Advanced study of topics in graphics and human-computer interfaces. Specific focus varies from year to year. Consult department for details.  3-0-9 units
6.897 | Advanced Topics in Computer Graphics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-897-selected-topics-in-cryptography-spring-2004 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes prereq:6.837 instructors:J. Solomon term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:In-depth study of an active research topic in computer graphics. Topics change each term. Readings from the literature, student presentations, short assignments, and a programming project.  3-0-9 units
6.901 | Engineering Innovation: Moving Ideas to Impact | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-901-inventions-and-patents-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate features:Faculty introduction - video, Online textbooks prereq:none instructors:V. Bulovic, F. Murray term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject 15.359[J] . Same subject as 15.359[J] 3-3-6 units
6.902 | Engineering Innovation and Design |  | prereq:none instructors:B. Kotelly term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Project-based seminar in innovative design thinking develops students' ability to conceive, implement, and evaluate successful projects in any engineering discipline. Lectures focus on the iterative design process and techniques to enhance creative analysis. Students use this process to design and implement robust voice recognition applications using a simple web-based system. They also give presentations and receive feedback to sharpen their communication skills for high emotional and intellectual impact. Guest lectures illustrate multidisciplinary approaches to design thinking. Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 2.723 , 6.902 , 16.662 2-1-3 units
6.903 | Patents, Copyrights, and the Law of Intellectual Property |  | prereq:none instructors:S. M. Bauer term:U (Spring) description:Intensive introduction to the law, focusing on intellectual property, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. Covers the process of drafting and filing patent applications, enforcement of patents in the courts, licensing IP rights, the differences between US and international IP laws and enforcement mechanisms, and what rights an inventor does and does not obtain. Highlights current legal issues and trends relating to information technology, biogenetic materials, and business methods. Readings include judicial opinions and statutory material, and class participation includes patent drafting assignments, patentability opinions and courtroom presentation. No listeners.  2-0-4 units
6.904 | Ethics for Engineers |  | prereq:none instructors:D. Doneson, B. L. Trout term:U (Fall, Spring) description:See description under subject 10.01 . Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 1.082 , 2.900 , 6.904 , 10.01 , 16.676 , 22.014 Subject meets with 6.9041 , 20.005 2-0-4 units
6.9041 | Ethics for Engineers - Independent Inquiry |  | prereq:none instructors:B. L. Trout term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Explores the ethical principles by which an engineer ought to be guided. Integrates foundational texts in ethics with case studies illustrating ethical problems arising in the practice of engineering. Readings from classic sources including Aristotle, Kant, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Franklin and Tocqueville. Case studies include articles and films that address engineering disasters, safety, ethical codes, biotechnology, the internet and AI, and the ultimate scope and aims of engineering.  To satisfy the independent inquiry component of this subject, students expand the scope of their term project. Students taking 20.005 focus their term project on a problem in biological engineering in which there are intertwined ethical and technical issues. Subject meets with 1.082[J] , 2.900[J] , 6.904[J] , 10.01[J] , 16.676[J] , 20.005 , 22.014[J] 2-0-10 units
6.905 | Large-scale Symbolic Systems |  | prereq:6.034 or permission of instructor instructors:G. J. Sussman term:U (Spring) description:Concepts and techniques for the design and implementation of large software systems that can be adapted to uses not anticipated by the designer. Applications include compilers, computer-algebra systems, deductive systems, and some artificial intelligence applications. Covers means for decoupling goals from strategy, mechanisms for implementing additive data-directed invocation, work with partially-specified entities, and how to manage multiple viewpoints. Topics include combinators, generic operations, pattern matching, pattern-directed invocation, rule systems, backtracking, dependencies, indeterminacy, memoization, constraint propagation, and incremental refinement. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.945 3-0-9 units
6.906 | StartMIT: Workshop for Entrepreneurs and Innovators |  | prereq:none instructors:A. Chandrakasan, C. Chase, B. Aulet term:U (IAP) description:Designed for students who are interested in entrepreneurship and want to explore the potential commercialization of their research project. Introduces practices for building a successful company, such as idea creation and validation, defining a value proposition, building a team, marketing, customer traction, and possible funding models. Students taking graduate version complete different assignments. Subject meets with 6.936 4-0-2 units
6.907 | Entrepreneurship in Engineering |  | prereq:none instructors:C. Chase term:U (Spring) description:Immerses students in the experience of an engineer who founds a start-up company. Examines leadership, innovation, and creativity through the lens of an entrepreneur. Suitable for students interested in transforming an idea into a business or other realization for wide-scale societal impact. Covers critical aspects of validating ideas and assessing personal attributes needed to activate and lead a growing organization. Teams explore the basics of new venture creation and experimentation. Emphasizes personal skills and practical experiences. Students taking graduate version will complete additional assignments. No listeners. Same subject as 2.913[J] Subject meets with 6.933 4-0-8 units
6.910 | Independent Study in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Opportunity for independent study at the undergraduate level under regular supervision by a faculty member. Study plans require prior approval.  Units arranged
6.911 | Engineering Leadership Lab | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-911-transcribing-prosodic-structure-of-spoken-utterances-with-tobi-january-iap-2006 | level:Undergraduate features:Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments: activity (no examples) prereq:none. coreq:6.912 or permission of instructor instructors:L. McGonagle, J. Feiler term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Exposes students to leadership frameworks, models and cases within an engineering context, in an interactive, practice-based environment. Hones leadership, teamwork and communication skills. Students participate in guided reflections on individual and team successes, and discover opportunities for improvement in controlled settings. Activities include design-implement activities, role-plays, simulations, small group discussions, and performance and peer assessments by and of other students. Content throughout the term is frequently student-driven. First year Gordon Engineering Leadership Program (GEL) students register for 6.911 . Second year GEL Program students register for 6.913 . Preference to students enrolled in the Bernard M. Gordon-MIT Engineering Leadership Program. Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 6.911 , 16.650 Subject meets with 6.913[J] , 16.667[J] 0-2-1 units
6.912 | Engineering Leadership | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-912-introduction-to-copyright-law-january-iap-2006 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures prereq:none. coreq:6.911 or permission of instructor instructors:J. Magarian, J. Schindall, L. McGonagle term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Exposes students to the models and methods of engineering leadership within the contexts of conceiving, designing, implementing and operating products, processes and systems. Introduces the Capabilities of Effective Engineering Leaders, and models and theories related to the capabilities. Discusses the appropriate times and reasons to use particular models to deliver engineering success. Includes occasional guest speakers or panel discussions. May be repeated for credit once with permission of instructor. Preference to first-year students in the Gordon Engineering Leadership Program. Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 6.912 , 16.651 1-0-2 units
6.913 | Engineering Leadership Lab |  | prereq:6.902 6.911 6.912 or permission of instructor instructors:L. McGonagle, J. Feiler term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Exposes students to leadership frameworks, models and cases within an engineering context, in an interactive, practice-based environment. Hones leadership, teamwork and communication skills. Students lead and participate in guided reflections on individual and team successes, and discover opportunities for improvement in controlled settings. Activities include leading and supporting design-implement activities, role-plays, simulations, small group discussions, and performance and peer assessments by and of other students. Content throughout the term is frequently student-driven. First year Gordon Engineering Leadership Program (GEL) students register for 6.911 . Second year GEL Program students register for 6.913 . Preference to students enrolled in the second year of the Gordon-MIT Engineering Leadership Program. Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 6.913 , 16.667 Subject meets with 6.911[J] , 16.650[J] 0-2-4 units
6.914 | Project Engineering |  | prereq:( 6.902 and ( 6.911 or 6.912 )) or permission of instructor instructors:O. de Weck, J. Feiler, L. McGonagle, R. Rahaman term:U (IAP) description:Students attend a four-day off-site workshop where an introduction to basic principles, methods, and tools for project management in a realistic context are covered. In teams, students create a plan for a project of their choice in one of several areas, including aircraft modification, factory automation, enterprise software, flood prevention engineering, solar farm engineering, among others. Develops skills applicable to the management of complex development projects. Topics include cost-benefit analysis, resource and cost estimation, and project control and delivery, which are practiced during an experimental, team-based activity. Case studies highlight projects in both hardware/construction and software. Preference to students in the Bernard M. Gordon-MIT Engineering Leadership Program. Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 6.914 , 16.669 1-2-1 units
6.915 | Leading Innovation in Teams |  | prereq:none instructors:D. Nino, J. Schindall term:U (Spring) description:Empowers future innovators in engineering and technology with a foundation of leadership and teamwork skills. Grounded in research but practical in focus, equips students with leadership competencies such as building self-awareness, motivating and developing others, influencing without authority, managing conflict, and communicating effectively. Teamwork skills include how to convene, launch, and develop various types of teams, including project teams. Reviews recent advances in implementing innovations and building personal capacity for lifelong learning as a leading innovator. Enrollment limited to seating capacity of classroom. Admittance may be controlled by lottery. Same subject as 16.671[J] 3-0-6 units
6.920 | Practical Internship Experience |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:For Course 6 students participating in curriculum-related off-campus internship experiences in electrical engineering or computer science. Before enrolling, students must have an employment offer from a company or organization and must find an EECS supervisor. Upon completion of the internship the student must submit a letter from the employer evaluating the work accomplished, a substantive final report from the student, approved by the MIT supervisor. Subject to departmental approval. Consult Department Undergraduate Office for details on procedures and restrictions.  0-1-0 units
6.921 | 6-A Internship |  | prereq:none instructors:T. Palacios term:U (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Provides academic credit for the first assignment of 6-A undergraduate students at companies affiliated with the department's 6-A internship program. Limited to students participating in the 6-A internship program.  0-12-0 units
6.922 | Advanced 6-A Internship |  | prereq:6.921 instructors:T. Palacios term:U (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Provides academic credit for the second assignment of 6-A undergraduate students at companies affiliated with the department's 6-A internship program. Limited to students participating in the 6-A internship program.  0-12-0 units
6.928 | Leading Creative Teams |  | prereq:none instructors:D. Nino, J. Schindall term:G (Fall, Spring) description:Prepares students to lead teams charged with developing creative solutions in engineering and technical environments. Grounded in research but practical in focus, equips students with leadership competencies such as building self-awareness, motivating and developing others, creative problem solving, influencing without authority, managing conflict, and communicating effectively. Teamwork skills include how to convene, launch, and develop various types of teams, including project teams. Learning methods emphasize personalized and professional skill development. Same subject as 15.674[J] , 16.990[J] 3-0-6 units
6.929 | Energy Technology and Policy: From Principles to Practice |  | prereq:none instructors:J. Deutch term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Develops analytical skills to lead a successful technology implementation with an integrated approach that combines technical, economical and social perspectives. Considers corporate and government viewpoints as well as international aspects, such as nuclear weapons proliferation and global climate issues. Discusses technologies such as oil and gas, nuclear, solar, and energy efficiency. Limited to 100. Same subject as 5.00[J] , 10.579[J] , 22.813[J] 3-0-6 units
6.930 | Management in Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-96-management-in-engineering-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: written with examples, Exams and solutions prereq:none instructors:H. S. Marcus, J.-H. Chun term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject 2.96 . Restricted to juniors and seniors. Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 2.96 , 6.930 , 10.806 , 16.653 3-1-8 units
6.933 | Entrepreneurship in Engineering |  | prereq:none instructors:C. Chase term:G (Spring) description:Immerses students in the experience of an engineer who founds a start-up company. Examines leadership, innovation, and creativity through the lens of an entrepreneur. Suitable for students interested in transforming an idea into a business or other realization for wide-scale societal impact. Covers critical aspects of validating ideas and assessing personal attributes needed to activate and lead a growing organization. Teams explore the basics of new venture creation and experimentation. Emphasizes personal skills and practical experiences. Students taking graduate version will complete additional assignments. No listeners. Subject meets with 2.913[J] , 6.907[J] 4-0-8 units
6.934 | Engineering, Economics and Regulation for Energy Access in Developing Countries |  | prereq:none instructors:I. Perez-Arriaga, R. Stoner term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:See description under subject 15.017[J] . Same subject as 15.017[J] 3-0-9 units
6.935 | Financial Market Dynamics and Human Behavior |  | prereq:15.401 15.414 or 15.415 instructors:A. Lo term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 15.481[J] . Same subject as 15.481[J] 4-0-5 units
6.936 | StartMIT: Workshop for Entrepreneurs and Innovators |  | prereq:none instructors:A. Chandrakasan term:G (IAP) description:Designed for students who are interested in entrepreneurship and want to explore the potential commercialization of their research project. Introduces practices for building a successful company, such as idea creation and validation, defining a value proposition, building a team, marketing, customer traction, and possible funding models. Students taking graduate version complete different assignments. Subject meets with 6.906 4-0-2 units
6.941 | Statistics for Research Projects: Statistical Modeling and Experiment Design |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:G (IAP) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Practical introduction to data analysis, statistical modeling, and experimental design, intended to provide essential skills for conducting research. Covers basic techniques such as hypothesis-testing and regression models for both traditional experiments and newer paradignms such as evaluating simulations. Assignments reinforce techniques through analyzing sample datasets and reading case studies. Students with research projects will be encouraged to share their experiences and project-specific questions.  2-2-2 units
6.943 | How to Make (Almost) Anything |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:N. Gershenfeld, J. DiFrancesco, J. Lavallee, G. Darcey term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject MAS.863[J] . Same subject as 4.140[J] , MAS.863[J] 3-9-6 units
6.945 | Large-scale Symbolic Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-945-adventures-in-advanced-symbolic-programming-spring-2009 | level:Graduate features:Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:6.034 or permission of instructor instructors:G. J. Sussman term:G (Spring) description:Concepts and techniques for the design and implementation of large software systems that can be adapted to uses not anticipated by the designer. Applications include compilers, computer-algebra systems, deductive systems, and some artificial intelligence applications. Covers means for decoupling goals from strategy, mechanisms for implementing additive data-directed invocation, work with partially-specified entities, and how to manage multiple viewpoints. Topics include combinators, generic operations, pattern matching, pattern-directed invocation, rule systems, backtracking, dependencies, indeterminacy, memoization, constraint propagation, and incremental refinement. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 6.905 3-0-9 units
6.946 | Classical Mechanics: A Computational Approach |  | prereq:physics i (gir) 18.03 and permission of instructor instructors:J. Wisdom, G. J. Sussman term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 12.620[J] . Same subject as 8.351[J] , 12.620[J] 3-3-6 units
6.951 | Graduate 6-A Internship |  | prereq:6.921 or 6.922 instructors:T. Palacios term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Provides academic credit for a graduate assignment of graduate 6-A students at companies affiliated with the department's 6-A internship program. Limited to graduate students participating in the 6-A internship program.  0-12-0 units
6.952 | Graduate 6-A Internship |  | prereq:6.951 instructors:T. Palacios term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Provides academic credit for graduate students who require an additional term at the company to complete the graduate assignment of the department's 6-A internship program. This academic credit is for registration purposes only and cannot be used toward fulfilling the requirements of any degree program. Limited to graduate students participating in the 6-A internship program.  0-12-0 units
6.960 | Introductory Research in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:L. A. Kolodziejski term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Enrollment restricted to first-year graduate students in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science who are doing introductory research leading to an SM, EE, ECS, PhD, or ScD thesis. Opportunity to become involved in graduate research, under guidance of a staff member, on a problem of mutual interest to student and supervisor. Individual programs subject to approval of professor in charge.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.961 | Introduction to Research in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:L. A. Kolodziejski term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Seminar on topics related to research leading to an SM, EE, ECS, PhD, or ScD thesis. Limited to first-year regular graduate students in EECS with a fellowship or teaching assistantship.  3-0-0 units
6.962 | Independent Study in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:L. A. Kolodziejksi term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Opportunity for independent study under regular supervision by a faculty member. Projects require prior approval.  Units arranged
6.980 | Teaching Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:H. S. Lee, R. C. Miller term:G (Fall, Spring) description:For qualified students interested in gaining teaching experience. Classroom, tutorial, or laboratory teaching under the supervision of a faculty member. Enrollment limited by availability of suitable teaching assignments.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.981 | Teaching Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:H. S. Lee, R. C. Miller term:G (Fall, Spring) description:For Teaching Assistants in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, in cases where teaching assignment is approved for academic credit by the department.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.991 | Research in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:For EECS MEng students who are Research Assistants in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, in cases where the assigned research is approved for academic credit by the department. Hours arranged with research supervisor.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.994 | Professional Perspective I |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department Graduate Office term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Required for Course 6 students in the doctoral program to gain professional perspective in research experiences, academic experiences, and internships in electrical engineering and computer science. Professional perspective options include: internships (with industry, government or academia), industrial colloquia or seminars, research collaboration with industry or government, and professional development for entry into academia or entrepreneurial engagement. For an internship experience, an offer of employment from a company or organization is required prior to enrollment; employers must document work accomplished. A written report is required upon completion of a minimum of 4 weeks of off-campus experiences. Proposals subject to departmental approval.  0-0-1 units
6.995 | Professional Perspective II |  | prereq:6.994 instructors:Consult Department Graduate Office term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Required for Course 6 students in the doctoral program to gain professional perspective in research experiences, academic experiences, and internships in electrical engineering and computer science. Professional perspective options include: internships (with industry, government or academia), industrial colloquia or seminars, research collaboration with industry or government, and professional development for entry into academia or entrepreneurial engagement. For an internship experience, an offer of employment from a company or organization is required prior to enrollment; employers must document work accomplished. A written report is required upon completion of a minimum of 4 weeks of off-campus experiences. Proposals subject to departmental approval.  0-0-1 units
6.997 | Professional Perspective Internship |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Required for Course 6 students in the MEng program to gain professional perspective in research experiences or internships in electrical engineering or computer science. Before enrolling, students must have an offer of employment from a company or organization. Employers must document the work accomplished. Written report required upon completion of a minimum of four weeks of off-campus experience. Proposals subject to departmental approval. For international students who begin the MEng program in the same summer as the proposed experience, internship may not begin earlier than the first day of the Summer Session.  0-1-0 units
6.998 | Practical Experience in EECS |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:For Course 6 students in the MEng program who seek practical off-campus research experiences or internships in electrical engineering or computer science. Before enrolling, students must have an offer of employment from a company or organization and secure a supervisor within EECS. Employers must document the work accomplished. Proposals subject to departmental approval. For students who begin the MEng program in the summer only, the experience or internship cannot exceed 20 hours per week and must begin no earlier than the first day of the Summer Session, but may end as late as the last business day before the Fall Term.  0-1-0 units
6.999 | Practical Experience in EECS |  | prereq:none instructors:L. A. Kolodziejski term:G (Fall, Spring) description:For Course 6 students in the SM/PhD track who seek practical off-campus research experiences or internships in electrical engineering or computer science. Before enrolling, students must have a firm employment offer from a company or organization and secure a research supervisor within EECS. Employers required to document the work accomplished. Research proposals subject to departmental approval; consult departmental Graduate Office.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.EPE | UPOP Engineering Practice Experience |  | prereq:2.epw or permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:U (Fall, Spring) description:See description under subject 2.EPE . Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 1.EPE , 2.EPE , 3.EPE , 6.EPE , 8.EPE , 10.EPE , 15.EPE , 16.EPE , 20.EPE , 22.EPE 0-0-1 units
6.EPW | UPOP Engineering Practice Workshop |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (Fall, IAP) description:See description under subject 2.EPW . Enrollment limited. Engineering School-Wide Elective Subject. Offered under: 1.EPW , 2.EPW , 3.EPW , 6.EPW , 10.EPW , 16.EPW , 20.EPW , 22.EPW 1-0-0 units
6.S897-6.S899 | Special Subject in Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S911-6.S919 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
6.S963-6.S967 | Special Studies: EECS |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Opportunity for study of graduate-level topics related to electrical engineering and computer science but not included elsewhere in the curriculum. Registration under this subject normally used for situations involving small study groups. Normal registration is for 12 units. Registration subject to approval of professor in charge. Consult the department for details.  Units arranged
6.S974 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S975 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, IAP) description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S976 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S977 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall; second half of term) description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S978 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall) description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.S979 | Special Subject in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult Department term:G (Fall, Spring) description:Covers subject matter not offered in the regular curriculum. Consult department to learn of offerings for a particular term.  Units arranged
6.THG | Graduate Thesis |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:L. A. Kolodziejski term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Program of research leading to the writing of an SM, EE, ECS, PhD, or ScD thesis; to be arranged by the student and an appropriate MIT faculty member.  Units arranged
6.THM | Master of Engineering Program Thesis |  | prereq:6.uat instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Program of research leading to the writing of an MEng thesis; to be arranged by the student and an appropriate MIT faculty member. Restricted to MEng graduate students.  Units arranged
6.UR | Undergraduate Research in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Department Undergraduate Office term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Individual research project arranged with appropriate faculty member or approved supervisor. Forms and instructions for the final report are available in the EECS Undergraduate Office.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
