EE100 | The Electrical Engineering Profession | http://EE100.stanford.edu | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI) description:Lectures/discussions on topics of importance to the electrical engineering professional. Continuing education, professional societies, intellectual property and patents, ethics, entrepreneurial engineering, and engineering management.
EE100A | Circuits and Signals Applications | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE100A | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI) description:This seminar course is intended to provide students with practical examples of electronic circuits and related signal processing that can augment and motivate the related courses such as: CME 102, EE 101A and EE 102A. Any or all of these courses can be taken concurrently. The empha-sis will be on the frequency- and time-domain behavior of circuits. The speakers will demon-strate system-level, application-driven motivation for the circuits and associated signal pro-cessing that will be discussed. The detailed discussion will focus on examples of the first-order models and analysis that in turn relates to the courses mentioned above.
EE101A | Circuits I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE101A | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:First of two-course sequence. Introduction to circuit modeling and analysis. Topics include creating the models of typical components in electronic circuits and simplifying non-linear models for restricted ranges of operation (small signal model); and using network theory to solve linear and non-linear circuits under static and dynamic operations. Prerequisite: Physics 43
EE102A | Signal Processing and Linear Systems I | http://EE102A.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, J. (PI) description:Concepts and tools for continuous- and discrete-time signal and system analysis with applications in signal processing, communications, and control. Mathematical representation of signals and systems. Linearity and time invariance. System impulse and step responses. System frequency response. Frequency-domain representations: Fourier series and Fourier transforms. Filtering and signal distortion. Time/frequency sampling and interpolation. Continuous-discrete-time signal conversion and quantization. Discrete-time signal processing. Prerequisite: MATH 53 or CME 102.
EE10N | How Musical Instruments Work | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE10N | instructors: description:Musical instruments, as well as being fun to play, are excellent examples of science, engineering, and the interplay between the two. How does an instrument make sound? Why does a trumpet sound different from a guitar, a flute, or a bell? We will examine the principles of operation of wind, string, percussion, and electronic instruments hands-on in class. Concepts to be investigated include waves, resonators, understanding and measuring sound spectra and harmonic structure of instruments, engineering design of instruments, the historical development of instruments, and the science and engineering that make them possible. Prerequisites: high school math and physics. Recommended: some experience playing a musical instrument.
EE114 | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design (EE 214A) | http://EE114.stanford.edu | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Prerequisite: 101B.GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE116 | Semiconductor Device Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE116 | instructors:Pop, E. (PI) description:The fundamental operation of semiconductor devices and overview of applications. The physical principles of semiconductors, both silicon and compound materials; operating principles and device equations for junction devices (diodes, bipolar transistor, photo-detectors). Introduction to quantum effects and band theory of solids. Prerequisite: ENGR 40. Corequisite: 101B.
EE118 | Introduction to Mechatronics (ME 210) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE118 | instructors:Gumerlock, K. (PI); Kenny, T. (PI) description:Technologies involved in mechatronics (intelligent electro-mechanical systems), and techniques to apply this technology to mecatronic system design. Topics include: electronics (A/D, D/A converters, op-amps, filters, power devices); software program design, event-driven programming; hardware and DC stepper motors, solenoids, and robust sensing. Large, open-ended team project. Prerequisites: ENGR 40, CS 106, or equivalents.
EE134 | Introduction to Photonics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE134 | instructors:Ellerbee, A. (PI) description:Photonics, optical components, and fiber optics. Conceptual and mathematical tools for design and analysis of optical communication, sensor and imaging systems. Experimental characterization of semiconductor lasers, optical fibers, photodetectors, receiver circuitry, fiber optic links, optical amplifiers, and optical sensors. Class project on confocal microscopy or other method of sensing or analyzing biometric data. Laboratory experiments. Prerequisite: 41 or equivalent.
EE141 | Engineering Electromagnetics | http://EE141.stanford.edu | instructors:Vuckovic, J. (PI) description:Lumped versus distributed circuits. Transient response of transmission lines with resistive and reactive loads. Reflection, transmission, attenuation and dispersion. Steady-state waves on transmission lines. Standing wave ratio, impedance matching, and power flow. Coulomb's law, electrostatic field, potential and gradient, electric flux and Gauss's Law and divergence. Metallic conductors, Poisson's and Laplace's equations, capacitance, dielectric materials. Electrostatic energy and forces. Steady electric currents, Ohm's Law, Kirchoff's Laws, charge conservation and the continuity equation, Joule's Law. Biot-Savart's law and the static magnetic field. Ampere's Law and curl. Vector magnetic potential and magnetic dipole. Magnetic materials, forces and torques. Faraday's Law, magnetic energy, displacement current and Maxwell's equations. Uniform plane waves. Prerequisites: 102A, MATH 52.
EE14N | Things about Stuff | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE14N | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The stories behind disruptive inventions such as the telegraph, telephone, wireless, television, transistor, and chip are as important as the inventions themselves, for they elucidate broadly applicable scientific principles. Focus is on studying consumer devices; projects include building batteries, energy conversion devices and semiconductors from pocket change. Students may propose topics and projects of interest to them. The trajectory of the course is determined in large part by the students themselves.
EE168 | Introduction to Digital Image Processing | http://EE168.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI) description:Computer processing of digital 2-D and 3-D data, combining theoretical material with implementation of computer algorithms. Topics: properties of digital images, design of display systems and algorithms, time and frequency representations, filters, image formation and enhancement, imaging systems, perspective, morphing, and animation applications. Instructional computer lab exercises implement practical algorithms. Final project consists of computer animations incorporating techniques learned in class. Prerequisite: Matlab programming.
EE169 | Introduction to Bioimaging | http://EE169.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Bioimaging is important for both clinical medicine, and medical research.  This course will provide a introduction to several of the major imaging modalities, using a signal processing perspective. The course will start with an introduction to multi-dimensional Fourier transforms, and image quality metrics.  It will then study projection imaging systems (projection X-Ray), backprojection based systems (CT, PET, and SPECT), systems that use beam forming (ultrasound), and systems that use Fourier encoding (MRI). Prerequisites: EE102A, EE102B
EE178 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis (EE 278A) | http://EE178.stanford.edu | instructors:Montanari, A. (PI); Tse, D. (PI) description:Introduction to probability and statistics and their role in modeling and analyzing real world phenomena. Events, sample space, and probability. Discrete random variables, probability mass functions, independence and conditional probability, expectation and conditional expectation. Continuous random variables, probability density functions, independence and expectation, derived densities. Transforms, moments, sums of independent random variables. Simple random processes. Limit theorems. Introduction to statistics: significance, estimation and detection. Prerequisites: basic calculus and linear algebra.
EE179 | Analog and Digital Communication Systems | http://EE179.stanford.edu | instructors:Gill, J. (PI) description:This course covers the fundamental principles underlying the analysis, design and optimization of analog and digital communication systems. Design examples will be taken from the most prevalent communication systems today:  cell phones, Wifi, radio and TV broadcasting, satellites, and computer networks. Analysis techniques based on Fourier transforms and energy/power spectral density will be developed. Mathematical models for random variables and random (noise) signals will be presented, which are used to characterize filtering and modulation of random noise. These techniques will then be used to design analog (AM and FM) and digital (PSK and FSK) communication systems and determine their performance over channels with noise and interference. Prerequisite: 102A.
EE17N | Engineering the Micro and Nano Worlds: From Chips to Genes | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE17N | instructors:Pease, R. (PI); Provine, J. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The first part is hands-on micro- and nano-fabrication including the Stanford Nanofabrication Facility (SNF) and the Stanford Nanocharacterization Laboratory (SNL) and field trips to local companies and other research centers to illustrate the many applications; these include semiconductor integrated circuits ('chips'), DNA microarrays, microfluidic bio-sensors and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). The second part is to create, design, propose and execute a project. Most of the grade will be based on the project. By the end of the course you will, of course, be able to read critically a New York Times article on nanotechnology. More importantly you will have experienced the challenge (and fun) of designing, carrying out and presenting your own experimental project. As a result you will be better equipped to choose your major. This course can complement (and differs from) the seminars offered by Profs Philip Wong and Hari Manoharan in that it emphasizes laboratory work and an experimental student-designed project. Prerequisites: high-school physics.
EE191 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191 | instructors:Aghajan, H. (PI); Allison, D. (PI); Apostolopoulos, J. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Carpenter, D. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); De-Micheli, G. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Ellerbee, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hashemi, H. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Koza, J. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lauben, D. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Long, E. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Moslehi, M. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Reis, R. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Saxena, N. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Solomon, G. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tomlin, C. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vishnu, M. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Hadding, D. (GP); Niu, W. (GP); Oshiro, P. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. If a letter grade given on the basis of required written report or examination is not appropriate, enroll in 190. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE191A | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191A | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Wong, S. (PI) description:EE191A is part of the Accelerated Calculus for Engineers program. Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. EE 191A counts as a Math one unit seminar course: it is this unit that constitutes the ACE program.
EE191W | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering (WIM) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191W | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Ellerbee, A. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Hadding, D. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:WIM-version of EE 191.  For EE students using special studiesn(e.g., honors project, independent research project) to satisfy thenwriting-in-major requirement.  A written report that has gone through revision with an advisor is required.  An advisor from the Writing Center is recommended.
EE202 | Electrical Engineering in Biology and Medicine | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE202 | instructors: description:Open to all. Primarily biological in nature, introduction to the physiological and anatomic aspects of medical instrumentation. Areas include patient monitoring, imaging, medical transducers, the unique aspects of medical electronic systems, the socio-economic impact of technology on medical care, and the constraints unique to medicine. Prerequisite: familiarity with circuit instrumentation techniques as in 101B.
EE203 | The Entrepreneurial Engineer | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE203 | instructors:Melen, R. (PI) features:Video lectures description:Seminar. For prospective entrepreneurs with an engineering background. Contributions made to the business world by engineering graduates. Speakers include Stanford and other engineering and M.B.A. graduates who have founded large and small companies in nearby communities. Contributions from EE faculty and other departments including Law, Business, and MS&E.May be repeated for credit.
EE204 | Business Management for Electrical Engineers and Computer Scientists | http://EE204.stanford.edu | instructors:Gibbons, F. (PI) description:For graduate students with little or no business experience. Leading computer, high-tech, and Silicon Valley companies and their best practices. Tools and frameworks for analyzing decisions these companies face. Corporate strategy, new product development, marketing, sales, distribution, customer service, financial accounting, outsourcing, and human behavior in business organizations. Case studies. Prerequisite: graduate standing.
EE212 | Integrated Circuit Fabrication Processes | http://EE212.stanford.edu | instructors:Plummer, J. (PI) description:For students interested in the physical bases and practical methods of silicon VLSI chip fabrication, or the impact of technology on device and circuit design, or intending to pursue doctoral research involving the use of Stanford's Nanofabrication laboratory. Process simulators illustrate concepts. Topics: principles of integrated circuit fabrication processes, physical and chemical models for crystal growth, oxidation, ion implantation, etching, deposition, lithography, and back-end processing. Required for 410.
EE214A | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design (EE 114) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE214A | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Prerequisite: 101B.GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE214B | Advanced Analog Integrated Circuit Design | http://EE214B.stanford.edu | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI) description:Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits in advanced MOS and bipolar technologies. Device operation and compact modeling in support of circuit simulations needed for design. Emphasis on quantitative evaluations of performance using hand calculations and circuit simulations; intuitive approaches to design. Analytical and approximate treatments of noise and distortion; analysis and design of feedback circuits. Design of archetypal analog blocks for networking and communications such as broadband gain stages and transimpedance amplifiers. Prerequisites: EE114/214A.
EE21N | What is Nanotechnology? | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE21N | instructors:Wong, H. (PI) description:Nanotechnology is an often used word and it means many things to different people. Scientists and Engineers have some notion of what nanotechnology is, societal perception may be entirely different. In this course, we start with the classic paper by Richard Feynman ("There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom"), which laid down the challenge to the nanotechnologists. Then we discuss two classic books that offer a glimpse of what nanotechnology is: Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology by Eric Drexler, and Prey by Michael Crichton. Drexler's thesis sparked the imagination of what nano machinery might do, whereas Crichton's popular novel channeled the public's attention to this subject by portraying a disastrous scenario of a technology gone astray. We will use the scientific knowledge to analyze the assumptions and predictions of these classic works. We will draw upon the latest research advances to illustrate the possibilities and impossibilities of nanotechnology.
EE225 | Bio-chips, Imaging and Nanomedicine (MATSCI 382, SBIO 225) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE225 | instructors:Wang, S. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI) description:The course covers state-of-the-art and emerging bio-sensors, bio-chips, imaging modalities, and nano-therapies which will be studied in the context of human physiology including the nervous system, circulatory system and immune system. Medical diagnostics will be divided into bio-chips (in-vitro diagnostics) and medical and molecular imaging (in-vivo imaging). In-depth discussion on cancer and cardiovascular diseases and the role of diagnostics and nano-therapies.
EE228 | Basic Physics for Solid State Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE228 | instructors: description:Topics: energy band theory of solids, energy bandgap engineering, classical kinetic theory, statistical mechanics, and equilibrium and non-equilibrium semiconductor statistics. Prerequisite: course in modern physics.
EE22N | Medical Imaging Systems | http://EE22N.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The technology of major imaging modalities used for disease diagnosis: x-ray, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance; their history, societal impact, and clinical applications. Field trips to a medical center and an imaging research lab. Term paper and presentation. Prerequisites: high school physics and calculus.
EE233 | Analog Communications Design Laboratory (EE 133) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE233 | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI) description:Design, testing, and applications. Amplitude modulation (AM) using multiplier circuits. Frequency modulation (FM) based on discrete oscillator and integrated modulator circuits such as voltage-controlled oscillators (VCOs). Phased-lock loop (PLL) techniques, characterization of key parameters, and their applications. Practical aspects of circuit implementations. Labs involve building and characterization of AM and FM modulation/demodulation circuits and subsystems. Enrollment limited to 30 undergraduates and coterminal EE students. Prerequisite: EE101B. Undergraduate students enroll in EE133 and Graduate students enroll in EE233. Recommended: EE114/214A.
EE234 | Photonics Laboratory | http://EE234.stanford.edu | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI) description:Photonics and fiber optics with a focus on communication and sensing. Experimental characterization of semiconductor lasers, optical fibers, photodetectors, receiver circuitry, fiber optic links, optical amplifiers, and optical sensors and photonic crystals. Prerequisite: EE 242 or equivalent.  Recommended: EE 236A.
EE236A | Modern Optics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236A | instructors:Byer, R. (PI) description:Geometrical optics, aberrations, optical instruments, radiometry. Ray matrices and Gaussian beams. Wave nature of light. Plane waves: at interfaces, in media with varying refractive index. Diffraction and Fourier optics. Interference, single-beam interferometers (Fabry-Perot), multiple-beam interferometers (Michelson, Mach-Zehnder). Polarization, Jones and Stokes calculi.nFormerly EE 268. Prerequisites: EE 141 or familiarity with electromagnetism and plane waves.
EE236AL | MODERN OPTICS - LABORATORY | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236AL | instructors:Byer, R. (PI) description:The Laboratory Course allows students to work hands-on with optical equipment to conduct five experiments that compliment the lecture course.  Examples are Gaussian Beams and Resonators, Interferometers, and Diffraction.
EE236B | Guided Waves | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236B | instructors:Fan, S. (PI) description:Maxwell's equations, constitutive relations. Kramers-Kronig relations. Modes in waveguides: slab, rectangular, circular. Photonic crystals, surface plasmon modes. General properties of waveguide modes: orthogonality, phase and group indices, group velocity dispersion. Chirped pulse propagation in dispersive media and its connection to Gaussian beam propagation. Time lens. Waveguide technologies: glass, silicon, III-V semiconductor, metallic. Waveguide devices: fibers, lasers, modulators, arrayed waveguide gratings. Scattering matrix description of passive optical devices, and constraints from energy conservation, time-reversal symmetry and reciprocity. Mode coupling, directional couplers, distributed-feedback structures. Resonators from scattering matrix and input-output perspective. Micro-ring resonators.nnFormerly EE 235. Prerequisites: EE 236A and EE 242 or familiarity with differential form of Maxwell's equations.
EE242 | Electromagnetic Waves | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE242 | instructors:Fraser-Smith, A. (PI) description:Continuation of 141. Maxwell's equations. Plane waves in lossless and lossy media. Skin effect. Flow of electromagnetic power (Poynting's theorem). Reflection and refraction of waves at planar boundaries. Snell's law and total internal reflection. Reflection and refraction from lossy media. Guided waves. Parallel-plate and dielectric-slab waveguides. Hollow wave-guides, cavity resonators, microstrip waveguides, optical fibers. Interaction of fields with matter and particles. Antennas and radiation of electromagnetic energy. Prerequisite: 141 or PHYSICS 120.
EE247 | Introduction to Optical Fiber Communications | http://EE247.stanford.edu | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI) description:Fibers: single- and multi-mode, attenuation, modal dispersion, group-velocity dispersion, polarization-mode dispersion. Nonlinear effects in fibers: Raman, Brillouin, Kerr. Self- and cross-phase modulation, four-wave mixing. Sources: light-emitting diodes, laser diodes, transverse and longitudinal mode control, modulation, chirp, linewidth, intensity noise. Modulators: electro-optic, electro-absorption. Photodiodes: p-i-n, avalanche, responsivity, capacitance, transit time. Receivers: high-impedance, transimpedance, bandwidth, noise. Digital intensity modulation formats: non-return-to-zero, return-to-zero. Receiver performance: Q factor, bit-error ratio, sensitivity, quantum limit. Sensitivity degradations: extinction ratio, intensity noise, jitter, dispersion. Wavelength-division multiplexing. System architectures: local-area, access, metropolitan-area, long-haul. Prerequisites: 102A, 242 or consent of instructor.
EE251 | High-Frequency Circuit Design Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE251 | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:Students will study the theory of operation of instruments such as the time-domain reflectometer, sampling oscilloscope and vector network analyzer. They will build on that theoretical foundation by designing, constructing and characterizing numerous wireless building blocks in the upper-UHF range (e.g., up to about 500MHz), in a running series of laboratory exercises that conclude in a final project. Examples include impedance-matching and coupling structures, filters, narrowband and broadband amplifiers, mixers/modulators, and voltage-controlled oscillators.
EE252E | Electrical Systems Practicum (CEE 252E) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE252E | instructors:Hawk, J. (PI); Koester, J. (PI); Levitt, R. (PI) description:Electrical Systems comprise anywhere from 10% to 50% of an overall project cost.  This class will provide you with an overview of various systems installed in today's built environment including power, lighting, and special systems (Tel/Data, Wireless, RFID, Life Safety Systems, etc). Industry experts will discuss the latest trends in Data Centers and power generation (solar, wind, and  natural gas). Also included is a review of basic electrical materials, installation methods, cost analysis and metrics, as well as management and estimating processes; all geared toward the construction management professional.
EE257 | Applied Optimization Laboratory (Geophys 258) (GEOPHYS 258) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE257 | instructors: description:Application of optimization and estimation methods to the analysis and modeling of large observational data sets. Laboratory exercises using inverse theory and applied linear algebra to solve problems of indirect and noisy measurements.  Emphasis on practical solution of scientific and engineering problems, especially those requiring large amounts of data, on digital computers using scientific languages. Also addresses advantages of large-scale computing, including hardware architectures, input/output and data bus bandwidth, programming efficiency, parallel programming techniques. Student projects involve analyzing real data by implementing observational systems such as tomography for medical and Earth observation uses, radar and matched filtering, multispectral/multitemporal studies, or migration processing. Prequisites: Programming with high level language. Recommended: EE261, EE263, EE178/278A, ME300 or equivalent.
EE262 | Two-Dimensional Imaging | http://EE262.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Time and frequency representations, two-dimensional auto- and cross-correlation, Fourier spectra, diffraction and antennas, coordinate systems and the Hankel and Abel transforms, line integrals, impulses and sampling, restoration in the presence of noise, reconstruction and tomography, imaging radar. Tomographic reconstruction using projection-slice and layergarm methods. Students create software to form images using these techniques with actual data. Final project consists of design and simulation of an advanced imaging system. Prerequisite: EE261. Recommended: EE278B, EE279.
EE264 | Digital Signal Processing | http://EE264.stanford.edu | instructors:Park, D. (PI); Schafer, R. (PI) description:The fundamentals of digital signal processing techniques and their applications. Topics include review of two sided Z-transform, linear time invariant discrete-time systems, and sampling theory; A/D and D/A conversion, rate conversion, and oversampling techniques for ADC and DAC; filter design; quantization in digital filter implementation; discrete Fourier analysis; and parametric signal modeling.  Prerequisite: EE102A and EE102B . Recommended: EE261, EE278B.
EE266 | Stochastic Control (MS&E 251) | http://EE266.stanford.edu | instructors:Lall, S. (PI) description:Introduction to stochastic control, with applications taken from a variety of areas including supply-chain optimization, advertising, finance, dynamic resource allocation, caching, and traditional automatic control. Markov decision processes, optimal policy with full state information for finite-horizon case, infinite-horizon discounted, and average stage cost problems. Bellman value function, value iteration, and policy iteration. Approximate dynamic programming. Linear quadratic stochastic control.  Formerly EE365. Prerequisites: EE 263, EE 178 or equivalent
EE272 | Design Projects in VLSI Systems | http://EE272.stanford.edu | instructors: description:An introduction to mixed signal design.  Working in teams you will create a small mixed-signal VLSI design using a modern design flow and CAD tools.  The project involves writing a Verilog model of the chip, creating a testing/debug strategy for your chip, wrapping custom layout to fit into a std cell system, using synthesis and place and route tools to create the layout of your chip, and understanding all the weird stuff you need to do to tape-out a chip.  Useful for anyone who will build a chip in their Ph.D.  Pre-requsiites:  EE271 and experience in digital/analog circuit design.
EE278 | Introduction to Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE278.stanford.edu | instructors:Tse, D. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI) description:Review of basic probability and random variables. Random vectors and processes; convergence and limit theorems; IID, independent increment, Markov, and Gaussian random processes; stationary random processes; autocorrelation and power spectral density; mean square error estimation, detection, and linear estimation. Formerly EE 278B. Prerequisites: EE178 and linear systems and Fourier transforms at the level of EE102A,B or EE261.
EE278A | Probabilistic Systems Analysis (EE 178) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE278A | instructors:Montanari, A. (PI); Tse, D. (PI) description:Introduction to probability and statistics and their role in modeling and analyzing real world phenomena. Events, sample space, and probability. Discrete random variables, probability mass functions, independence and conditional probability, expectation and conditional expectation. Continuous random variables, probability density functions, independence and expectation, derived densities. Transforms, moments, sums of independent random variables. Simple random processes. Limit theorems. Introduction to statistics: significance, estimation and detection. Prerequisites: basic calculus and linear algebra.
EE278B | Introduction to Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE278B.stanford.edu | instructors:Kim, H. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Ramani Kumar, G. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI) description:Review of basic probability and random variables. Random vectors and processes; convergence and limit theorems; IID, independent increment, Markov, and Gaussian random processes; stationary random processes; autocorrelation and power spectral density; mean square error estimation, detection, and linear estimation. Prerequisites: EE178/278A and linear systems and Fourier transforms at the level of EE102A,B or EE261.
EE279 | Introduction to Digital Communication | http://EE279.stanford.edu | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI) description:Digital communication is a rather unique field in engineering in which theoretical ideas have had an extraordinary impact on the design of actual systems. The course provides a basic understanding of the analysis and design of digital communication systems, building on various ideas from probability theory, stochastic processes, linear algebra and Fourier analysis. Topics include: detection and probability of error for binary and M-ary signals (PAM, QAM, PSK), receiver design and sufficient statistics, controlling the spectrum and the Nyquist criterion, bandpass communication and up/down conversion, design trade-offs: rate, bandwidth, power and error probability, coding and decoding (block codes, convolutional coding and Viterbi decoding).  Prerequisites: 179 or 261, and 178 or 278
EE27N | Electronics Rocks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE27N | instructors:Kovacs, G. (PI) description:Electronics pervades our lives, yet we often feel obliged to let a device function as it was intended. This course is about not being intimidated by voiding a warranty and modding some commercial gadget and about being confident enough to build something cool from scratch. To get there, we will study the basics of "how things work" and learn how to hack/mod and scratch build. Students will be mentored and encouraged to work, in teams, to play with interesting electronics and ultimately to develop a creative final project.
EE282 | Computer Systems Architecture | http://EE282.stanford.edu | instructors:Kozyrakis, C. (PI) description:Course focuses on how to build modern computing systems, namely notebooks, smartphones, and data centers, covering primarily their hardware architecture and certain system software aspects. For each system class, we cover the system architecture, processor technology, advanced memory hierarchy and I/O organization, power and energy management, and reliability. We will also cover topics such as interactions with system software, virtualization, solid state storage, and security. The programming assignments allow students to explore performance/energy tradeoffs when using heterogeneous hardware resources on smartphone devices. Prerequisite: EE108B. Recommended: CS 140.
EE283B | Embedded Wireless Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE283B | instructors: description:The structure and implementation of hardware/software systems for low power embedded sensors; how to build hardware/software systems that can run unattended for years on small batteries. Topics: hardware trends, energy profiles, execution models, sensing, aggregation, storage, application requirements, allocation, power management, resource management, scheduling, time synchronization, programming models, software design, and fault tolerance. Students discuss papers and research a final project building working systems on low-power embedded devices.
EE290A | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290A | instructors:Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Duncan, A. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290C | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290C | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290D | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290D | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE292B | Micro and Nanoscale Biosensing for Molecular Diagnostics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292B | instructors:Emaminejad, S. (PI) description:The course covers state-of-the-art and emerging bio-sensors, biochips, microfluidics,  which will be studied in the context of molecular diagnostics. Students will briefly learn the relevant biology, biochemistry, and molecular biology pertinent to molecular diag-nostics.  Students will also become equipped with a thorough understanding of the interfaces between electronics, fluidics, and molecular biology. Topics will include microfluidics and mass transfer limits, electrode-electrolyte interfaces, electrochemical noise processes, biosensor system level characterization, determination of performance parameters such as throughput, detection limit, and cost, integration of sensor with microfluidics, and electronic readout circuitry architectures. Emphasis will be placed on in-depth quantitative design of biomolecular sensing platforms.
EE292H | Engineering and Climate Change | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292H | instructors:Field, L. (PI) description:The purpose of this seminar series course is to help students and professionals develop the tools to apply the engineering mindset to problems that stem from climate change, in order to consider and evaluate possible stabilizing, remedial and adaptive approaches. This course is not a crash course on climate change or policy. Instead it will focus on learning about and discussing climate problems that seem most likely to benefit from the engineering mindset.  Each week Dr. Field and/or a guest speaker will lead a short warm-up discussion/activity and then deliver a talk in his/her area of expertise. It will wrap up with small-group and full-class discussions of related challenges/opportunities and possible engineering-oriented solutions. nClass members are asked to do some background reading before each class and to submit a question before each lecture.May be repeated for credit.
EE292I | Insanely Great Products: How do they get built? | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292I | instructors:Obershaw, D. (PI) description:Great products emerge from a sometimes conflict-laden process of collaboration between different functions within companies. This Seminar seeks to demystify this process via case-studies of successful products and companies. Engineering management and businesspeople will share their experiences in discussion with students. Previous companies profiled: Apple, Intel, Facebook, and Genentech -- to name a few. Previous guests include: Jon Rubinstein (NeXT, Apple, Palm), Diane Greene (VMware), and Ted Hoff (Intel). Pre-requisites: None
EE292J | Power Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292J | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:All electronics need power from somewhere, which means the applications of power electronics are everywhere. In this practical introduction to power electronics we discuss both power conversion topologies--rectifiers, switching converters, and inverters; and the details needed to get power circuits to work--magnetic design, thermal management, and control. Includes guest lectures from industry, and a field trip to the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory to demonstrate some truly inspiring power converters. Prerequisites: EE 114.
EE292K | Intelligent Energy Projects | http://EE292K.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Energy systems must have the intelligence to cope with rapid changes in energy supply, demand, distribution, and storage. This course is a project course focusing on a selected areas of intelligent energy systems: Demand Response, Optimal Power Flow and Locational Marginal Pricing, energy systems monitoring, control analysis of distribution systems, and associated system architecture. Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. Basic probability (EE 278), optimization (EE 364A), Matlab and C++ programming.  Experience with cvx a plus.
EE292L | Nanomanufacturing | http://EE292L.stanford.edu | instructors:Nainani, A. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI) features:Video lectures description:Fundamentals of nanomanufacturing technology and applications. Topics include recent developments in process technology, lithography and patterning. Technology for FinFET transistors, NAND flash and 3D chips. Manufacturing of LEDs, thin film and crystalline solar cells. Flip classroom model is used supplementing classroom lectures with short videos. Guest speakers include distinguished engineers, entrepreneurs and venture capitalists actively engaged in nanomanufacturing. Prerequisite: background in device physics and process technology. Recommended: EE116, EE216, EE212
EE292P | Power Management Integrated Circuits | http://EE292P.stanford.edu | instructors:Arora, S. (PI) description:Analysis of power management architectures and circuits in CMOS VLSI technology. Circuit-level design of integrated linear voltage regulators and highly-efficient switching power converters. Overview of significant topics: high-frequency converters, switched capacitor converters, battery chargers, digital control and layout of power converters. Prerequisite: EE214A or equivalent
EE292T | SmartGrids and Advanced Power Systems Seminar (CEE 272T) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292T | instructors:Rajagopal, R. (PI) description:A series of seminar and lectures focused on power engineering. Renowned researchers from universities and national labs will deliver bi-weekly seminars on the state of the art of power system engineering. Seminar topics may include: power system analysis and simulation, control and stability, new market mechanisms, computation challenges and solutions, detection and estimation, and the role of communications in the grid. The instructors will cover relevant background materials in the in-between weeks. The seminars are planned to continue throughout the next academic year, so the course may be repeated for credit.
EE293A | Solar Cells, Fuel Cells, and Batteries: Materials for the Energy Solution (ENERGY 293A, MATSCI 156, MATSCI 256) | http://EE293A.stanford.edu | instructors:Clemens, B. (PI) description:Operating principles and applications of emerging technological solutions to the energy demands of the world. The scale of global energy usage and requirements for possible solutions. Basic physics and chemistry of solar cells, fuel cells, and batteries. Performance issues, including economics, from the ideal device to the installed system. The promise of materials research for providing next generation solutions. Undergraduates register in 156 for 4 units; graduates register in 256 for 3 units.
EE293B | Fundamentals of Energy Processes (ENERGY 293B) | http://EE293B.stanford.edu | instructors:Horne, R. (PI); Kovscek, A. (PI) description:For seniors and graduate students. Covers scientific and engineering fundamentals of renewable energy processes involving heat.  Thermodynamics, heat engines, solar thermal, geothermal, biomass. Recommended: MATH 41, 43; PHYSICS 41, 43, 45
EE308 | Advanced Circuit Techniques | http://EE308.stanford.edu | instructors:Lundberg, K. (PI) description:Design of advanced analog circuits at the system level, including switching power converters, amplitude-stabilized and frequency-stabilized oscillators, voltage references and regulators, power amplifiers and buffers, sample-and-hold circuits, and application-specific op-amp compensation. Approaches for finding creative design solutions to problems with difficult specifications and hard requirements. Emphasis on feedback circuit techniques, design-oriented thinking, and hands-on experience with modern analog building blocks.  Several designs will be built and evaluated, along with associated laboratory projects.
EE310 | Integrated Circuits Technology and Design Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE310 | instructors: description:State-of-the-art micro- and nanoelectronics, nanotechnology, advanced materials, and nanoscience for device applications. Prerequisites: EE216, EE316.May be repeated for credit
EE313 | Digital MOS Integrated Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE313 | instructors:Horowitz, M. (PI) description:Looks a little more deeply at how digital circuits operate, what makes a gate digital, and how to "cheat" to improve performance or power. To aid this analysis we create a number of different models for MOS transistors and choose the simplest one that can explain our the circuit's operation, using both hand and computer analysis. We explore static, dynamic, pulse-mode, and current mode logic, and show how they are are used in SRAM design. Topics include sizing for min delay, noise and noise margins, power dissipation. The class uses memory design (SRAM) as a motivating example. DRAM and EEPROM design issues are also covered. Prerequisites: 101B, 108A. Recommended: 271.
EE314A | RF Integrated Circuit Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE314A | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:Design of RF integrated circuits for communications systems, primarily in CMOS. Topics: the design of matching networks and low-noise amplifiers at RF, mixers, modulators, and demodulators; review of classical control concepts necessary for oscillator design including PLLs and PLL-based frequency synthesizers. Design of low phase noise oscillators. Design of high-efficiency (e.g., class E, F) RF power amplifiers, coupling networks. Behavior and modeling of passive and active components at RF. Narrowband and broadband amplifiers; noise and distortion measures and mitigation methods. Overview of transceiver architectures. Prerequisite: EE214B.
EE314B | Advanced RF Integrated Circuit Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE314B | instructors: description:Analysis and design of modern communication circuits and systems with emphasize on design techniques for high-frequency (into mm-wave) ICs. Topics include MOS, bipolar, and BiCMOS high-frequency integrated circuits, including power amplifiers, extremely wideband amplifiers, advanced oscillators, phase-locked loops and frequency-translation circuits.  Design techniques for mm-wave silicon ICs (on-chip low-loss transmissions lines, unilateralization techniques, in-tegrated antennas, harmonic generation, etc) will also be studied.  Prerequisite: EE314A or equivalent course in RF or microwave.
EE315A | VLSI Signal Conditioning Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE315A | instructors: description:Design and analysis of integrated circuits for active filters, precision gain stages, and sensor interfaces in CMOS VLSI technology. Operational transconductance amplifiers; sampled-data and continuous-time analog filters. Analysis of noise and amplifier imperfections; compensation techniques such as correlated double sampling. Sensor interfaces for micro-electromechanical and biomedical applications. Layout techniques for analog integrated circuits. Prerequisites: EE214B.
EE315B | VLSI Data Conversion Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE315B | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI) description:Architectural and circuit level design and analysis of integrated analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog interfaces in CMOS VLSI technology. Fundamental circuit elements such as sampling circuits and voltage comparators. Circuits and architectures for Nyquist-rate and oversampling analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversion; digital decimation and interpolation filters. Examples of calibration and digital enhancement techniques. Prerequisite: EE 214B. Recommended: EE 315A.
EE316 | Advanced VLSI Devices | http://EE316.stanford.edu | instructors:Wong, H. (PI) description:In modern VLSI technologies, device electrical characteristics are sensitive to structural details and therefore to fabrication techniques. How are advanced VLSI devices designed and what future changes are likely? What are the implications for device electrical performance caused by fabrication techniques? Physical models for nanometer scale structures, control of electrical characteristics (threshold voltage, short channel effects, ballistic transport) in small structures, and alternative device structures for VLSI. Prerequisites: 212 and 216, or equivalent.
EE323 | Energy in Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE323 | instructors:Pop, E. (PI) description:This course examines energy in modern nanoelectronics, from fundamentals to system-level issues.  Topics include fundamental aspects like energy transfer through electrons and phonons, ballistic limits of current and heat, meso- to macroscale mobility and thermal conductivity. The course also nexamines applied topics including power dissipation in nanoscale devices (FinFETs, phase-change memory, nanowires, graphene, nanotubes), circuit leakage, thermal breakdown, thermometry, heat sinks, and thermal challenges in densely integrated systems.
EE327 | Properties of Semiconductor Materials | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE327 | instructors: description:Modern semiconductor devices and integrated circuits are based on unique energy band, carrier transport, and optical properties of semiconductor materials. How to choose these properties for operation of semiconductor devices. Emphasis is on quantum mechanical foundations of the properties of solids, energy bandgap engineering, semi-classical transport theory, semi-conductor statistics, carrier scattering, electro-magneto transport effects, high field ballistic transport, Boltzmann transport equation, quantum mechanical transitions, optical absorption, and radiative and non-radiative recombination that are the foundations of modern transistors and optoelectronic devices. Prerequisites: EE216 or equivalent.
EE332 | Laser Dynamics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE332 | instructors:Fejer, M. (PI) description:Dynamic and transient effects in lasers including spiking, Q-switching, mode locking, frequency modulation, frequency and spatial mode competition, linear and nonlinear pulse propagation, pulse shaping.  Formerly EE 232. Prerequisite: 236C.
EE340 | Optical Micro- and Nano-Cavities | http://EE340.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Optical micro- and nano-cavities and their device applications. Types of optical cavities (microdisks, microspheres, photonic crystal cavities, plasmonic cavities), and their electromagnetic properties, design, and fabrication techniques. Cavity quantum electrodynamics: strong and weak-coupling regime, Purcell factor, spontaneous emission control. Applications of optical cavities, including low-threshold lasers, optical modulators, quantum information processing devices, and bio-chemical sensors. Prerequisites: Advanced undergraduate or basic graduate level knowledge of electromagnetics, quantum.
EE345 | Optical Fiber Communication Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE345 | instructors: description:Experimental techniques in optical fiber communications and networking. Experimental investigation of key optical communications components including fibers, lasers, modulators, photodiodes, optical amplifiers, and WDM multiplexers and demultiplexers. Fundamental optical communications systems techniques: eye diagrams, BER measurements, experimental evaluation of nonlinearties. Prerequisites: Undergraduate physics and optics.
EE346 | Introduction to Nonlinear Optics | http://EE346.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Wave propagation in anisotropic, nonlinear, and time-varying media. Microscopic and macroscopic description of electric-dipole susceptibilities. Free and forced waves; phase matching; slowly varying envelope approximation; dispersion, diffraction, space-time analogy. Harmonic generation; frequency conversion; parametric amplification and oscillation; electro-optic light modulation. Raman and Brillouin scattering; nonlinear processes in optical fibers.  Prerequisites: 242, 236C.
EE349 | Advanced Topics in Nano-Optics and Plasmonics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE349 | instructors:Fan, J. (PI) description:Electromagnetic phenomena at the nanoscale.  Dipolar interactions between emitters and nanostructures, weak and strong coupling, surface plasmon polaritons and localized plasmons, electromagnetic field enhancements, and near-field coupling between metallic nanostructures.  Numerical tools will be taught and used to simulate nano-optical phenomena.
EE355 | Imaging Radar and Applications (GEOPHYS 265) | http://EE355.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI) description:Radar remote sensing, radar image characteristics, viewing geometry, range coding, synthetic aperture processing, correlation, range migration, range/Doppler algorithms, wave domain algorithms, polar algorithm, polarimetric processing, interferometric measurements. Applications: surfafe deformation, polarimetry and target discrimination, topographic mapping surface displacements, velocities of ice fields. Prerequisites: EE261. Recommended: EE254, EE278B, EE279.
EE364B | Convex Optimization II (CME 364B) | http://EE364B.stanford.edu | instructors:Boyd, S. (PI); Park, J. (GP); Ryu, E. (GP); Udell, M. (GP) features:Video lectures description:Continuation of 364A. Subgradient, cutting-plane, and ellipsoid methods. Decentralized convex optimization via primal and dual decomposition. Monotone operators and proximal methods; alternating direction method of multipliers.  Exploiting problem structure in implementation. Convex relaxations of hard problems. Global optimization via branch and bound. Robust and stochastic optimization. Applications in areas such as control, circuit design, signal processing, and communications. Course requirements include project. Prerequisite: 364A.
EE365 | STOCHASTIC CONTROL | http://EE365.stanford.edu | instructors:Lall, S. (PI) description:Introduction to stochastic control, with applications taken from a variety of areas including supply-chain optimization, advertising, finance, dynamic resource allocation, caching, and traditional automatic control. Markov decision processes, optimal policy with full state information for finite-horizon case, infinite-horizon discounted, and average stage cost problems. Bellman value function, value iteration, and policy iteration. Approximate dynamic programming. Linear quadratic stochastic control.  Prerequisites: EE 263, EE 278A or equivalent
EE367 | Computational Imaging and Display (CS 448I) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE367 | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:Spawned by rapid advances in optical fabrication and digital processing power, a new generation of imaging technology is emerging: computational cameras at the convergence of applied mathematics, optics, and high-performance computing. Similar trends are observed for modern displays pushing the boundaries of resolution, contrast, 3D capabilities, and immersive experiences through the co-design of optics, electronics, and computation. This course serves as an introduction to the emerging field of computational imaging and displays. Students will learn to master bits and photons.
EE368 | Digital Image Processing (CS 232) | http://EE368.stanford.edu | instructors:Chen, D. (PI); Girod, B. (PI) description:Image sampling and quantization color, point operations, segmentation, morphological image processing, linear image filtering and correlation, image transforms, eigenimages, multiresolution image processing, noise reduction and restoration, feature extraction and recognition tasks, image registration. Emphasis is on the general principles of image processing. Students learn to apply material by implementing and investigating image processing algorithms in Matlab and optionally on Android mobile devices. Term project. In the fall and spring quarter, a sequence of interactive web/video modules substitutes the classroom lectures. In the winter quarter, the course is taught conventionally; both versions of the course are equivalent. Recommended: EE261, EE278B.
EE369B | Medical Imaging Systems II | http://EE369B.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Imaging internal structures within the body using non-ionizing radiation studied from a systems viewpoint. Modalities include ultrasound and magnetic resonance. Analysis of ultrasonic systems including diffraction and noise. Analysis of magnetic resonance systems including physics, Fourier properties of image formation, and noise. Prerequisite: EE 261
EE369C | Medical Image Reconstruction | http://EE369C.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Reconstruction problems from medical imaging, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and positron emission tomography (PET).  Problems include reconstruction from non-uniform frequency domain data, automatic deblurring, phase unwrapping, reconstruction from incomplete data, and reconstruction from projections. Prerequisite: 369B.
EE371 | Advanced VLSI Circuit Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE371 | instructors: description:Design of high-performance digital systems, the things that cause them to fail, and how to avoid these problems. Topics will focus on current issues including: wiring resistance and how to deal with it, power and Gnd noise and regulation, clock (or asynchronous) system design and how to minimize clocking overhead, high-speed I/O design, energy minimization including leakage control, and structuring your Verilog code to result in high-performance, low energy systems. Extensive use of modern CAD tools. Prerequisites: 271 and 313, or consent of instructor.
EE373B | Adaptive Neural Networks | http://EE373B.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Artificial neural networks. Feedforward layered networks. Backpropagation algorithm. Recurrent neural networks. Autoassociative neural networks. Principal component analysis. Clustering algorithms. Applications of neural networks to pattern recognition, speech recognition, adaptive control, nonlinear adaptive filtering, and cognitive memory. Modeling human memory. Design of human-like memory for computers, with applications to face recognition, image processing, and complex control. Continuation of research projects begun in 373A. Prerequisite: 373A.
EE376B | Network Information Theory (STATS 376B) | http://EE376B.stanford.edu | instructors:El Gamal, A. (PI) description:Network information theory deals with the fundamental limits on information flow in networks and the optimal coding schemes that achieve these limits. It aims to extend Shannon's point-to-point information theory and the Ford-Fulkerson max-flow min-cut theorem to networks with multiple sources and destinations. The course presents the basic results and tools in the field in a simple and unified manner. Topics covered include: multiple access channels, broadcast channels, interference channels, channels with state, distributed source coding, multiple description coding, network coding, relay channels, interactive communication, and noisy network coding. Prerequisites: EE376A.
EE376C | Universal Schemes in Information Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE376C | instructors: description:Universal schemes for lossless and lossy compression, channel coding and decoding, prediction, denoising, and filtering. Characterization of performance limitations in the stochastic settting: entropy rate, rate-distortion function, channel capacity, Bayes envelope for prediction, denoising, and filtering. Lempel-Ziv lossless compression, and Lempel-Ziv based schemes for lossy compression, channel coding, prediction, and filtering. Discrete universal denoising. Compression-based approach to denoising. The compound decision problem. Prerequisites: EE278, EE376A, EE376B.
EE377 | Information Theory and Statistics (STATS 311) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE377 | instructors:Duchi, J. (PI) description:Information theoretic techniques in probability and statistics. Fano, Assouad,nand Le Cam methods for optimality guarantees in estimation.  Large deviationsnand concentration inequalities (Sanov's theorem, hypothesis testing, thenentropy method, concentration of measure). Approximation of (Bayes) optimalnprocedures, surrogate risks, f-divergences. Penalized estimators and minimumndescription length. Online game playing, gambling, no-regret learning. Prerequisites: EE 376A (or equivalent) or STATS 300A.
EE378A | Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE378A.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Random signals in electrical engineering. Discrete-time random processes: stationarity and ergodicity, covariance sequences, power spectral density, parametric models for stationary processes. Fundamentals of linear estimation: minimum mean squared error estimation, optimum linear estimation, orthogonality principle, the Wold decomposition. Causal linear estimation of stationary processes: the causal Wiener filter, Kalman filtering. Parameter estimation: criteria of goodness of estimators, Fisher information, Cramer-Rao inequality, Chapman-Robbins inequality, maximum likelihood estimation, method of moments, consistency, efficiency. ARMA parameter estimation: Yule-Walker equations, Levinson-Durbin algorithm, least squares estimation, moving average parameter estimation, modified Yule-Walker method for model order selection. Spectrum estimation: sample covariances, covariance estimation, Bartlett formula, periodogram, periodogram averaging, windowed periodograms. Prerequisites: EE 278B
EE378B | Inference, Estimation, and Information Processing | http://EE378B.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Techniques and models for signal, data and information processing, with emphasis on incomplete data, non-ordered index sets and robust low-complexity methods. Linear models; regularization and shrinkage; dimensionality reduction; streaming algorithms; sketching; clustering, search in high dimension; low-rank models; principal component analysis.nnnApplications include: positioning from pairwise distances; distributed sensing; measurement/traffic monitoring in networks; finding communities/clusters in networks; recommendation systems; inverse problems.	Prerequisites: EE278B and EE263 or equivalent. Recommended but not required: EE378A
EE379 | Digital Communication | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE379 | instructors: description:Modulation methods and bandwidth requirements, baseband and passband system analysis, minimum-probability-of-error and maximum-likelihood detection, error-probability analysis, intersymbol interference, maximum-likelihood sequence detection, equalization methods, orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing. Prerequisite: EE102B, EE278B
EE382C | Interconnection Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE382C | instructors:Michelogiannakis, G. (PI) description:The architecture and design of interconnection networks used to communicate from processor to memory, from processor to processor, and in switches and routers. Topics: network topology, routing methods, flow control, router microarchitecture, and performance analysis. Enrollment limited to 30. Prerequisite: 282.
EE384M | Network Science | http://EE384M.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Modern large-scale networks consist of (i) Information Networks, such as the Web and Social Networks, and (ii) Data Centers, which are networks interconnecting computing and storage elements for servicing the users of an Information Network.  This course is concerned with the mathematical models and the algorithms used in Information Networks and Data Centers. Prerequisite: EE178 or CS365.
EE384S | Performance Engineering of Computer Systems & Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE384S | instructors:Bambos, N. (PI) description:Modeling and control methodologies for high-performance network engineering, including: Markov chains and stochastic modeling, queueing networks and congestion management, dynamic programming and task/processor scheduling, network dimensioning and optimization, and simulation methods. Applications for design of high-performance architectures for wireline/wireless networks and the Internet, including: traffic modeling, admission and congestion control, quality of service support, power control in wireless networks, packet scheduling in switches, video streaming over wireless links, and virus/worm propagation dynamics and countermeasures. Enrollment limited to 30. Prerequisites: basic networking technologies and probability.
EE385A | Robust and Testable Systems Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE385A | instructors:McCluskey, E. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI) description:Student/faculty discussions of research problems in the design of reliable digital systems. Areas: fault-tolerant systems, design for testability, production testing, and system reliability. Emphasis is on student presentations and Ph.D. thesis research. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
EE386 | Robust System Design | http://EE386.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Causes of system malfunctions; techniques for building robust systems that avoid or are resilient to such malfunctions through built-in error detection and correction, prediction, self-test, self-recovery, and self-repair; case studies and new research problems. Prerequisites: 108A,B, 282.
EE390 | Special Studies or Projects in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE390 | instructors:Aghajan, H. (PI); Allison, D. (PI); Apostolopoulos, J. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Close, S. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dai, H. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); De-Micheli, G. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Ellerbee, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hashemi, H. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Johari, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Koza, J. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Long, E. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Peumans, P. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Reis, R. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Saxena, N. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shaw, H. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Siegman, A. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Solomon, G. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tomlin, C. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vishnu, M. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wakerly, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wiederhold, G. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); George, S. (GP); Hadding, D. (GP); Niu, W. (GP); Oshiro, P. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP); Chakraborty, S. (TA) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member. Individual or team activities may involve lab experimentation, design of devices or systems, or directed reading. May be repeated for credit.
EE391 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE391 | instructors:Abel, J. (PI); Aghajan, H. (PI); Allison, D. (PI); Apostolopoulos, J. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Bent, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Brongersma, M. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Chmelar, E. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Close, S. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); Cui, Y. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); De-Micheli, G. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Ellerbee, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Frank, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hashemi, H. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Koza, J. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lauben, D. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Long, E. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Moerner, W. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Peumans, P. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rajagopal, R. (PI); Reis, R. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Saxena, N. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shaw, H. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Siegman, A. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Solomon, G. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tomlin, C. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vishnu, M. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wakerly, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wiederhold, G. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Yang, D. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); George, S. (GP); Hadding, D. (GP); Niu, W. (GP); Oshiro, P. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member; written report or written examination required. Letter grade given on the basis of the report; if not appropriate, student should enroll in 390. May be repeated for credit.
EE392AA | Advanced Digital Transmission | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392AA | instructors: description:This course will develop insights into fundamentals and design of state-of-the-art physical-layer transmission systems. Specific attention will be paid to transmission in non-ideal environments with limited spectra and spatial interference. A theory of parallel channels is used to develop multi-carrier methods, vector coding, and generalized decision-feedback approaches. Students will be expected to design and analyze performance of systems operating close to fundamental limits for a variety of practical channels, wireline or wireless.  Prerequisites: EE379 or equivalent; understanding of probability, random processes, digital signal processing (including basic matrix and nmatlab skills).
EE392E | VLSI Signal Processing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392E | instructors: description:DSP architecture design.  Study of circuit and architecture techniques in energy-area-performance space, design methodology based on a data-flow graph model that leads to hardware implementation.  We explore automated wordlength reduction, direct and recursive filters, time-frequency analysis and other examples.  The project focuses on architecture exploration for selected DSP algorithms.  Useful for algorithm designers who consider hardware constraints and for circuit designers who prototype DSP algo-rithms in hardware. Prerequisites: EE102B and EE108A; Recommended: EE264 and EE271.
EE392F | Logic Synthesis of VLSI Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392F | instructors: description:Similar to former 318. Solving logic design problems with CAD tools for VLSI circuits. Exact and heuristic algorithms for logic synthesis. Representation and optimization of combinational logic functions (encoding problems, binary decision diagrams) and of multiple-level networks (algebraic and Boolean methods, don't-care set computation, timing verification, and optimization);and modeling and optimization of sequential functions and networks (retiming), semicustom libraries, and library binding. Prerequisites: familiarity with logic design, algorithm development, and programming.
EE392L | Modern Cellular Communication Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392L | instructors: description:Theoretical and practical aspects of design, development, and implementation of modern cellular communication systems including principles, requirements and constraints of system design and deployment using examples from real-life cellular systems. Topics include radio access network protocols; homogenous and heterogeneous network architectures; power, mobility, and interference management; spectrum allocations; network capacity and user throughput; multi-antenna transmission techniques; RF and baseband signal processing; unicast and broadcast multimedia services; multi-radio platforms; and future trends in cellular communications. Suggested prerequisites: EE359, EE264, EE279, and EE278 or equivalents
EE392N | INTELLIGENT ENERGY SYSTEMS | http://EE392N.stanford.edu | instructors:Gorinevsky, D. (PI); O'Neill, D. (PI) description:The key systems engineering steps for design of automated systems in application to of existing and future intelligent energy systems. Existing design approaches and practices for the energy systems.  Every second lecture of the course will be a guest lecture discussing the communication system design for a certain type of energy system. They will alternate with guest lectures discuss-ing the on-line analytical functions.
EE392P | Nanoscale Device Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392P | instructors: description:The course develops an understanding of nanoscale devices relevant to information manipulation: electronic drawing on ballistic, single electron, quantum confinement, and phase transitions such as ferroelectric, metal-insulator, and structural; magnetic employing field-switching,  spin-torque and spin Hall; photonic using photonic bandgaps and non-linearities; and mechanical employing deflection, torsion and resonance. The physical phenomena that these connect to are electron-phonon effects in dielectrics, mesoscopic and single-electron phenomena, phase transitions, magnetic switching, spin-torque effect, Casimir effect, plasmonics, and their coupled interactions.  Prerequisites: EE 216 or equivalent.  Recommended: EE 222.
EE392R | Analog-to-Digital Conversion | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392R | instructors:Pelgrom, M. (PI) description:This course teaches the theoretical and practical aspects of designing analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog converters. During this course sampling and amplitude discretization theory are reviewed. Several converters and building blocks are analyzed on electronic circuit level and suitability for various systems is considered. Specific properties and their application are shown.nNext to Nyquist converters also oversampled and noise-shaping topologies are re-viewed. Impact of mismatch of components is extensively discussed.  Prerequisites: EE214B or equivalent.
EE392T | Seminar in Chip Test and Debug | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392T | instructors:Murray, S. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI) description:Seminars by industry professionals in digital IC manufacturing test and silicon debug. Topics include yield and binsplit modeling, defect types and detection, debug hardware, physical analysis, and design for test/debug circuits. Case studies of silicon failures. Prerequisite: basic digital IC design (271 or 371).
EE398A | Image and Video Compression | http://EE398A.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Replaces EE398. The principles of source coding for the efficient storage and transmission of still and moving images. Entropy and lossless coding techniques. Run-length coding and fax compression. Arithmetic coding. Rate-distortion limits and quantization. Lossless and lossy predictive coding. Transform coding, JPEG. Subband coding, wavelets, JPEG2000. Motion-compensated coding, MPEG. Students investigate image and video compression algorithms in Matlab or C. Term project. Prerequisites: EE261, EE278.
EE402S | Topics in International Advanced Technology Research | http://EE402S.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Theme for Spring 2013 is a survey of industry interests related to Ph.D. research in EE.  Views from venture investors, corporate executives, and others in regard to mid-term future market demands in application areas such as cloud computing and analytics, energy and cleantech, robotics, transportation, medical devices and systems, etc.  Perspectives into identifying and selecting a dissertation topic and maximizing the impact of research in industry and the academic world.  Presentations and discussions by industry and university experts.
EE412 | Advanced Nanofabrication Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE412 | instructors:Howe, R. (PI) description:Experimental projects and seminars on integrated circuit fabrication using epitaxial, oxidation, diffusion, evaporation, sputtering, and photolithographic processes with emphasis on techniques for achieving advanced device performance. May be repeated for additional credit. Prerequisites: ENGR341 or EE410 or consent of instructor.
EE469B | RF Pulse Design for Magnetic Resonance Imaging | http://EE469B.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) based on the use of radio frequency pulses to manipulate magnetization. Analysis and design of major types of RF pulses in one and multiple dimensions, analysis and design of sequences of RF pulses for fast imaging, and use of RF pulses for the creation of image contrast in MRI. Prerequisite: 369B.
EE60N | Man versus Nature: Coping with Disasters Using Space Technology (GEOPHYS 60N) | http://EE60N.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Preference to freshman. Natural hazards, earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes, and fires, and how they affect people and society; great disasters such as asteroid impacts that periodically obliterate many species of life. Scientific issues, political and social consequences, costs of disaster mitigation, and how scientific knowledge affects policy. How spaceborne imaging technology makes it possible to respond quickly and mitigate consequences; how it is applied to natural disasters; and remote sensing data manipulation and analysis. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE801 | TGR Project | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE801 | instructors:Aghajan, H. (PI); Allison, D. (PI); Apostolopoulos, J. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); Cui, Y. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Moerner, W. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Saxena, N. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vishnu, M. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); George, S. (GP); Hadding, D. (GP); Niu, W. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:
EE92A | Making and Breaking Things | http://EE92A.stanford.edu | instructors: description:This course will feature weekly visiting speakers who will guide class members through the hands-on process of assembling or dissection novel interactive devices and products. The course is meant to provide students hands-on experience with component sensing and computing technolo-gies, a working knowledge of different materials and methods used in modern-day prototyping and manufacture, and exposure to people en-gaged in designing novel devices within the field of interactive device de-sign. Activities will features a wide and evolving range of domains such as texile sensors, hacking wireless radio, making LED light sculptures, taking apart toys, shape deposition modeling and more.
