MAS.110 | Fundamentals of Computational Media Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-110-fundamentals-of-computational-media-design-fall-2008 | textbook:Standage, Tom. The Victorian Internet. New York, NY: Walker and Company, 1998. textbook:Carter, Rob, Ben Day, and Philip Meggs. Typographic Design: Form and Communication. 4th ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2006. textbook:Britt, David, ed. Modern Art: Impressionism to Post-Modernism. New York, NY: Thames & Hudson, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Barry Vercoe,  David Small, Dr. Henry Holtzman, Dr. V. Michael Bove term:Fall 2008 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This class covers the history of 20th century art and design from the perspective of the technologist. Methods for visual analysis, oral critique, and digital expression are introduced. Class projects this term use the OLPC XO (One Laptop Per Child) laptop, Csound and Python software.
MAS.111 | Introduction to Doing Research in Media Arts and Sciences | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-111-introduction-to-doing-research-in-media-arts-and-sciences-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. V. Michael Bove term:Spring 2011 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is intended for students pursuing research projects at the Media Laboratory. Topics include Media Lab research areas, documenting research progress, ethical issues in research; patents, copyrights, intellectual property, and giving oral, written, and online presentations of results. A final oral presentation is required. Enrollment limited with preference given to students in the Media Arts and Sciences freshman program.
MAS.131 | Computational Camera and Photography (Fall 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-531-computational-camera-and-photography-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Ramesh Raskar term:Fall 2009 features:Audio lectures, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:A computational camera attempts to digitally capture the essence of visual information by exploiting the synergistic combination of task-specific optics, illumination, sensors and processing. In this course we will study this emerging multi-disciplinary field at the intersection of signal processing, applied optics, computer graphics and vision, electronics, art, and online sharing through social networks. If novel cameras can be designed to sample light in radically new ways, then rich and useful forms of visual information may be recorded &mdash; beyond those present in traditional photographs. Furthermore, if computational process can be made aware of these novel imaging models, them the scene can be analyzed in higher dimensions and novel aesthetic renderings of the visual information can be synthesized.We will discuss and play with thermal cameras, multi-spectral cameras, high-speed, and 3D range-sensing cameras and camera arrays. We will learn about opportunities in scientific and medical imaging, mobile-phone based photography, camera for HCI and sensors mimicking animal eyes. We will learn about the complete camera pipeline. In several hands-on projects we will build physical imaging prototypes and understand how each stage of the imaging process can be manipulated.
MAS.160 | Signals, Systems and Information for Media Technology (Fall 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-160-signals-systems-and-information-for-media-technology-fall-2007 | textbook:[MSY] McClellan, J. H., R. W. Schafer, and M. A. Yoder. DSP First: A Multimedia Approach. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Shannon, C. E., and W. Weaver. The Mathematical Theory of Communication. Champaign, IL: University of Illinois Press, 1998. textbook:Karu, Zoher Z. Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple. Huntsville, AL: ZiZi Press, 1995. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Rosalind W. Picard, Dr. V. Michael Bove, Dr. Quinn Smithwick<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This class teaches the fundamentals of signals and information theory with emphasis on modeling audio/visual messages and physiologically derived signals, and the human source or recipient. Topics include linear systems, difference equations, Z-transforms, sampling and sampling rate conversion, convolution, filtering, modulation, Fourier analysis, entropy, noise, and Shannon's fundamental theorems. Additional topics may include data compression, filter design, and feature detection. The undergraduate subject MAS.160 meets with the two half-semester graduate subjects MAS.510 and MAS.511, but assignments differ.
MAS.330J | Design Across Scales, Disciplines and Problem Contexts | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/architecture/4-110j-design-across-scales-disciplines-and-problem-contexts-spring-2013 | textbook:Aldersey-Williams, Hugh, Peter Hall, et al. Design and the Elastic Mind. Edited by Paola Antonelli.  Museum of Modern Art, 2008. textbook:Jameson, Fredric. Archaeologies of the Future: The Desire Called Utopia and Other Science Fictions. Verso, 2005. textbook:Cook, Peter. Archigram. Princeton Architectural Press, 1999. textbook:Wigley, Mark. Constant's New Babylon: The Hyper-Architecture of Desire. Witte de With, 1999. textbook:Daston, Lorraine, and Peter Galison. Objectivity. Zone Books, 2007. textbook:Maeda, John. The Laws of Simplicity. MIT Press, 2006. textbook:Tufte, Edward. Envisioning Information. Graphics Press, 1990. textbook:Maeda, John. Creative Code: Aesthetics + Computation. Thames & Hudson, 2004. textbook:Reas, Casey, and Ben Fry. Processing: A Programming Handbook for Visual Designers and Artists. MIT Press, 2007. textbook:Fry, Ben. Visualizing Data: Exploring and Explaining Data with the Processing Environment. O'Reilly Media, 2008. textbook:Aranda, Benjamin, and Chris Lasch. Pamphlet Architecture 27: Tooling. Princeton Architectural Press, 2005. textbook:Sakamoto, Tomoko, and Albert Ferré. From Control to Design: Parametric/Algorithmic Architecture. Actar, 2008. textbook:Pearce, Peter. Structure in Nature Is a Strategy for Design. MIT Press, 1980. textbook:Ball, Philip. Branches: Nature's Patterns: A Tapestry in Three Parts. Oxford University Press, 2009. textbook:Minsky, Marvin L. The Society of Mind. Simon and Schuster, 1988. textbook:Simon, Herbert A. The Sciences of the Artificial. MIT Press, 1981. textbook:Huizinga, Johan. Homo Ludens: A Study of the Play—Element in Culture. Beacon Press, 1971. textbook:Baudrillard, Jean. Simulacra and Simulation. University of Michigan Press, 1995. textbook:Gibson, William. Neuromancer. Ace Books, 1986. textbook:Lyotard, Jean-Francois. "Acinema." In Narrative, Apparatus, Ideology: A Film Theory Reader. Columbia University Press, 1986. textbook:Brown, Tim. Change by Design: How Design Thinking Transforms Organizations and Inspires Innovation. Harper Business, 2009. textbook:Mau, Bruce, and Jennifer Leonard. Massive Change. Phaidon, 2004. textbook:McDonough, William, and Michael Braungart. Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things. North Point Press, 2002. textbook:Ball, Philip. The Self-Made Tapestry: Pattern Formation in Nature. Oxford University Press, 2001. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Meejin Yoon,  Neri Oxman term:Spring 2013 features:Projects and examples description:This course explores the reciprocal relationships among design, science, and technology by covering a wide range of topics including industrial design, architecture, visualization and perception, design computation, material ecology, and environmental design and sustainability. Students will examine how transformations in science and technology have influenced design thinking and vice versa, as well as develop methodologies for design research and collaborate on design solutions to interdisciplinary problems.
MAS.450 | Holographic Imaging | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-450-holographic-imaging-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Michael Halle,  Stephen Benton term:Spring 2003 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:MAS.450 is a laboratory course about holography and holographic imaging.This course teaches holography from a scientific and analytical point of view, moving from interference and diffraction to imaging of single points to the display of three-dimensional images. Using a "hands-on" approach, students explore the underlying physical phenomena that make holograms work, as well as designing laboratory setups to make their own images. The course also teaches mathematical techniques that allow the behavior of holography to be understood, predicted, and harnessed.Holography today brings together the fields of optics, chemistry, computer science, electrical engineering, visualization, three-dimensional display, and human perception in a unique and comprehensive way. As such, MAS.450 offers interesting and useful exposure to a wide range of principles and ideas. As a course satisfying the Institute Laboratory Requirement, MAS.450 teaches about science, scientific research, and the scientific method through observation and exploration, hinting at the excitement that inventors feel before they put their final equations to paper.
MAS.965 | NextLab I: Designing Mobile Technologies for the Next Billion Users | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-965-nextlab-i-designing-mobile-technologies-for-the-next-billion-users-fall-2008 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Mr. Jhonatan Rotberg, Dr. Luis Sarmenta, Dr. Gari Clifford, Dr. Rich Fletcher term:Fall 2008 features: description:Can you make a cellphone change the world? NextLab is a hands-on year-long design course in which students research, develop and deploy mobile technologies for the next billion mobile users in developing countries. Guided by real-world needs as observed by local partners, students work in multidisciplinary teams on term-long projects, closely collaborating with NGOs and communities at the local level, field practitioners, and experts in relevant fields. Students are expected to leverage technical ingenuity in both mobile and internet technologies together with social insight in order to address social challenges in areas such as health, microfinance, entrepreneurship, education, and civic activism. Students with technically and socially viable prototypes may obtain funding for travel to their target communities, in order to obtain the first-hand feedback necessary to prepare their technologies for full fledged deployment into the real world (subject to guidelines and limitations).
MAS.478 | Special Topics in Multimedia Production: Experiences in Interactive Art (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-878-special-topics-in-multimedia-production-experiences-in-interactive-art-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Glorianna Davenport,  Stephen Benton,  Ali Mazalek<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2003 features: description:This class deals with interactive art. Visiting artists will discuss their work from a theoretical and practical perspective. Discussions of the history of interactive digital art and contemporary issues in the field will take place. Students will develop an interactive art project for a final exhibition or submit a short paper.
MAS.510 | Signals, Systems and Information for Media Technology (Fall 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-160-signals-systems-and-information-for-media-technology-fall-2007 | textbook:[MSY] McClellan, J. H., R. W. Schafer, and M. A. Yoder. DSP First: A Multimedia Approach. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Shannon, C. E., and W. Weaver. The Mathematical Theory of Communication. Champaign, IL: University of Illinois Press, 1998. textbook:Karu, Zoher Z. Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple. Huntsville, AL: ZiZi Press, 1995. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Rosalind W. Picard, Dr. V. Michael Bove, Dr. Quinn Smithwick<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This class teaches the fundamentals of signals and information theory with emphasis on modeling audio/visual messages and physiologically derived signals, and the human source or recipient. Topics include linear systems, difference equations, Z-transforms, sampling and sampling rate conversion, convolution, filtering, modulation, Fourier analysis, entropy, noise, and Shannon's fundamental theorems. Additional topics may include data compression, filter design, and feature detection. The undergraduate subject MAS.160 meets with the two half-semester graduate subjects MAS.510 and MAS.511, but assignments differ.
MAS.511 | Signals, Systems and Information for Media Technology (Fall 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-160-signals-systems-and-information-for-media-technology-fall-2007 | textbook:[MSY] McClellan, J. H., R. W. Schafer, and M. A. Yoder. DSP First: A Multimedia Approach. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Shannon, C. E., and W. Weaver. The Mathematical Theory of Communication. Champaign, IL: University of Illinois Press, 1998. textbook:Karu, Zoher Z. Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple. Huntsville, AL: ZiZi Press, 1995. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Rosalind W. Picard, Dr. V. Michael Bove, Dr. Quinn Smithwick<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This class teaches the fundamentals of signals and information theory with emphasis on modeling audio/visual messages and physiologically derived signals, and the human source or recipient. Topics include linear systems, difference equations, Z-transforms, sampling and sampling rate conversion, convolution, filtering, modulation, Fourier analysis, entropy, noise, and Shannon's fundamental theorems. Additional topics may include data compression, filter design, and feature detection. The undergraduate subject MAS.160 meets with the two half-semester graduate subjects MAS.510 and MAS.511, but assignments differ.
MAS.531 | Computational Camera and Photography (Fall 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-531-computational-camera-and-photography-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Ramesh Raskar term:Fall 2009 features:Audio lectures, Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:A computational camera attempts to digitally capture the essence of visual information by exploiting the synergistic combination of task-specific optics, illumination, sensors and processing. In this course we will study this emerging multi-disciplinary field at the intersection of signal processing, applied optics, computer graphics and vision, electronics, art, and online sharing through social networks. If novel cameras can be designed to sample light in radically new ways, then rich and useful forms of visual information may be recorded &mdash; beyond those present in traditional photographs. Furthermore, if computational process can be made aware of these novel imaging models, them the scene can be analyzed in higher dimensions and novel aesthetic renderings of the visual information can be synthesized.We will discuss and play with thermal cameras, multi-spectral cameras, high-speed, and 3D range-sensing cameras and camera arrays. We will learn about opportunities in scientific and medical imaging, mobile-phone based photography, camera for HCI and sensors mimicking animal eyes. We will learn about the complete camera pipeline. In several hands-on projects we will build physical imaging prototypes and understand how each stage of the imaging process can be manipulated.
MAS.622J | Pattern Recognition and Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-622j-pattern-recognition-and-analysis-fall-2006 | textbook:Duda, Richard O., Peter E. Hart, and David G. Stork. Pattern Classification. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2000. textbook:Russell, Stuart, and Peter Norvig. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002, chapter 21. level:Graduate instructors:Media Lab Faculty and Staff term:Fall 2006 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This class deals with the fundamentals of characterizing and recognizing patterns and features of interest in numerical data. We discuss the basic tools and theory for signal understanding problems with applications to user modeling, affect recognition, speech recognition and understanding, computer vision, physiological analysis, and more. We also cover decision theory, statistical classification, maximum likelihood and Bayesian estimation, nonparametric methods, unsupervised learning and clustering. Additional topics on machine and human learning from active research are also talked about in the class.
MAS.630 | Affective Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-630-affective-computing-spring-2008 | textbook:Picard, R. W. "Introduction, Chapter 1, and Chapter 3." In Affective Computing. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Davis, M. H. "Empathy." In Handbook of the Sociology of Emotions. Edited by J. E. Stets, and J. H. Turner. New York, NY: Springer, 2006. textbook:Bickmore, T., and D. Schulman. "Practical Approaches to Comforting users with Relational Agents." In CHI '07 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM, 2007, pp. 2291-2296. textbook:Klein, J., Y. Moon, and R. W. Picard. "This Computer Responds to User Frustration." In CHI '99 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM, 1999, pp. 242-243. textbook:Nass, C., et al. "Improving Automotive Safety by Pairing Driver Emotion and Car Voice Emotion." In CHI '05 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM, 2005, pp. 1973-1976. textbook:Russell, J. A., and J. M. F. Dols. "What Does a Facial Expression Mean?" Chapter 1 in The Psychology of Facial Expression. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Dumit, Joseph. "Ways of Seeing Brains as Expert Images." Chapter 4 in Picturing Personhood: Brain Scans and Biomedical Identity. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2003, pp. 109-133. textbook:Hacking, Ian. "Madness: Biological or constructed?" Chapter 4 in The Social Construction of What? Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2000, pp. 100-124. textbook:a. 2001: A Space Odyssey (148 mins.)             [Instead of watching the whole movie, you may read:  Picard, R. W. "Does Hal Cry Digital Tears? Emotion and Computers." In Hal's Legacy. Edited by David G. Stork. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Rosalind W. Picard term:Spring 2008 features: description:This class explores computing that relates to, arises from, or deliberately influences emotion. Topics include the interaction of emotion with cognition and perception; the role of emotion in human-computer interaction; the communication of human emotion via face, voice, physiology, and behavior; construction of computers that have skills of emotional intelligence; the development of computers that &quot;have&quot; emotion; affective technologies for autism; and other areas of current research interest. Weekly reading, discussion, and a term project are required.
MAS.632 | Conversational Computer Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-632-conversational-computer-systems-fall-2008 | textbook:Schmandt, C. Voice Communication with Computers: Conversational Systems. New York, NY: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1993. textbook:Goffman, Erving. "Replies and Responses." Chapter 1 in Forms of Talk. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1981, pp. 5-77. textbook:Davis, F. "Do Clothes Speak? What Makes them Fashion?" Chapter 1 in Fashion, Culture, and Identity. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1994. level:Graduate instructors:Mr. Christopher Schmandt term:Fall 2008 features:Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions) description:This class explores interaction with mobile computing systems and telephones by voice, including speech synthesis, recognition, digital recording, and browsing recorded speech. Emphasis on human interface design issues and interaction techniques appropriate for cognitive requirements of speech. Topics include human speech production and perception, speech recognition and text-to-speech algorithms, telephone networks, and spatial and time-compressed listening. Extensive reading from current research literature.
MAS.666 | Developmental Entrepreneurship | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-666-developmental-entrepreneurship-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Alex Pentland term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This class surveys developmental entrepreneurship via case examples of both successful and failed businesses and generally grapples with deploying and diffusing products and services through entrepreneurial action. By drawing on live and historical cases, especially from South Asia, Africa, Latin America as well as Eastern Europe, China, and other developing regions, we seek to cover the broad spectrum of challenges and opportunities facing developmental entrepreneurs. Finally, we explore a range of established and emerging business models as well as new business opportunities enabled by developmental technologies developed in MIT labs and beyond.
MAS.712 | How to Learn (Almost) Anything | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-712-how-to-learn-almost-anything-spring-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Mitchel Resnick,  Bakhtiar Mikhak term:Spring 2001 features:Projects and examples description:As the digital revolution brings with it radical changes in how and what we learn, people must continue to learn all the time. New technologies make possible new approaches to learning, new contexts for learning, new tools to support learning, and new ideas of what can be learned. This course will explore these new opportunities for learning with a special focus on what can be learned through immersive, hands-on activities. Students will participate in (and reflect on) a variety of learning situations, and will use Media Lab technologies to develop new workshops, iteratively run and refine the workshops, and analyze how and what the workshop participants learn.
MAS.714J | Technologies for Creative Learning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-714j-technologies-for-creative-learning-fall-2009 | textbook:Papert, S. Mindstorms: Children, Computers, and Powerful Ideas. New York, NY: Basic Books, 1980. textbook:Sawyer, K. "The New Science of Learning." Chapter 1 in The Cambridge Handbook of The Learning Sciences. Edited by K. Sawyer. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:Synopsis of arguments in the book Collins, A., and R. Halverson. Rethinking Education in the Age of Technology: The Digital Revolution and the Schools. New York, NY: Teachers College Press, 2009. textbook:diSessa, A. "Computational Media and New Literacies – The Very Idea." Chapter 1 in Changing Minds: Computers, Learning, and Literacy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Dewey, J. Experience and Education. Indianapolis, IN: Kappa Delta Phi, 1998 (reprint of 1938). textbook:Sawyer, K. "The Schools of the Future." Chapter 34 (Conclusion) in The Cambridge Handbook of The Learning Sciences. Edited by K. Sawyer. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:Margolis, J., et al. Unlocking the Clubhouse: Women in Computing. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Gee, J. P. In What Video Games Have to Teach Us About Learning and Literacy. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Macmillan, 2007. Chapters 1 and 2. textbook:Salen, K., and E. Zimmerman. Preface in Rules of Play: Game Design Fundamentals. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. Chapter 7. level:Graduate instructors:Mitchel Resnick,  Karen Brennan<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2009 features:Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions description:This course explores the design of innovative educational technologies and creative learning environments, drawing on specific case studies such as the LEGO&reg; Programmable Brick, Scratch software and Computer Clubhouse after-school learning centers. Includes activities with new educational technologies, reflections on learning experiences, and discussion of strategies and principles underlying the design of new tools and activities.
MAS.742 | Industrial Design Intelligence: A Cognitive Approach to Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-742-industrial-design-intelligence-a-cognitive-approach-to-engineering-fall-2003 | textbook:Wickens, Christopher D., Sallie E. Gordon, and Yili Liu. An Introduction to Human Factors Engineering. Princeton, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:Trudeau, Norman. Professional Modelmaking: A Handbook of Techniques and Materials for Architects and Designers. New York, NY: Watson-Guptill Publications, 1995. textbook:Fiell, Charlotte, and Peter Fiell. Design of the 20th Century. Los Angeles, CA: Taschen Publishers, 2001. textbook:Papanek, Victor. Design for the Real World: Human Ecology and Social Change. Chicago, IL: Academy Chicago Publishers, 1985. textbook:Woodham, Jonathan M. Twentieth Century Design. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1997. textbook:Coren, Stanley, Lawrence M. Ward, and James T. Enns. Sensation and Perception. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2003. textbook:Norman, Donald A. The Design of Everyday Things. New York, NY: Basic Books, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Ted Selker term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This class investigates cognitive science and technology as it is applied to the industrial design process. The class introduces prototyping techniques and approaches for objective evaluation as part of the design process. Students practice evaluating products with mechanical and electronic aspects. Evaluation processes are applied to creating functioning smart product prototypes. This is a project oriented subject that draws upon engineering, aesthetic, and creative skills.&#160;It is geared toward students interested in creating physical products which encompass electronics and computers, aimed at including them in smart scenarios. Students in the class will present readings, learn prototyping skills, create a product prototype, and complete a publication style paper.
MAS.771 | Autism Theory and Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-771-autism-theory-and-technology-spring-2011 | textbook:Gernsbacher, M. "Learning in Autism." In Cognitive Psychology of Memory. Vol. [2] of Learning and Memory: A Comprehensive Reference. 4 vols. Edited by H. L. Roediger, III. Elsevier, 2008, pp. 759-772. textbook:Baron, M. Grace, June Groden, Gerald Groden, and Lewis P. Lipsitt, eds. Selections from Stress and Coping in Autism. Oxford University Press, 2006, pp. 70-81. level:Graduate instructors:Rosalind W. Picard, Dr. Matthew Goodwin term:Spring 2011 features:Selected video lectures description:This course illuminates current theories about autism together with challenges faced by people on the autism spectrum. Theories in communicating, interacting socially, managing cognitive and affective overload, and achieving independent lifestyles are covered. In parallel, the course presents state-of-the-art technologies being developed for helping improve both theoretical understanding and practical outcomes. Participants are expected to meet and interact with people on the autism spectrum. Weekly reading, discussion, and a term project are required.
MAS.836 | Sensor Technologies for Interactive Environments | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-836-sensor-technologies-for-interactive-environments-spring-2011 | textbook:[JF] =  Fraden, J. Handbook of Modern Sensors: Physics, Designs, and Applications. 4th ed. Springer, 2010. textbook:[H&H] =  Horowitz, P., and W. Hill. The Art of Electronics. 2nd ed. Cambridge University Press, 1989. textbook:Pallás-Areny, R., and J. G. Webster. Chapter in Analog Signal Processing. Wiley-IEEE, 1999. textbook:Baxter, L. Capacitive Sensors: Design and Applications. John Wiley & Sons, 1996. textbook:Pallas-Areny, R., and J. G. Webster. Analog Signal Processing. Wiley-Interscience, 1999. textbook:Horowitz, P., and W. Hill. The Art of Electronics. Cambridge University Press, 1989. textbook:Lancaster, D. Active Filter Cookbook. Newnes, 1996. textbook:Jung, W. The OpAmp Cookbook. Prentice Hall, 1986. textbook:Brignell, J., and N. White. Intelligent Sensor Systems. Taylor & Francis, 1996. textbook:Everett, H. R. Sensors for Mobile Robots. A. K. Peters / CRC Press, 1995. textbook:Scherz, P. Practical Electronics for Inventors. 2nd ed. McGraw-Hill / TAB Electronics, 2006. textbook:Baxter, L. Capacitive Sensors: Design and Applications. Wiley-IEEE Press, 1996. textbook:APC International. Piezoelectric Ceramics: Principles & Applications. ACP International, 2002. textbook:Lawrence, A. Modern Inertial Technology: Navigation, Guidance, and Control. Springer, 1998. textbook:Rueger, J. M. Electronic Distance Measurement. Springer, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Joseph Paradiso term:Spring 2011 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is a broad introduction to a host of sensor technologies, illustrated by applications drawn from human-computer interfaces and ubiquitous computing. After extensively reviewing electronics for sensor signal conditioning, the lectures cover the principles and operation of a variety of sensor architectures and modalities, including pressure, strain, displacement, proximity, thermal, electric and magnetic field, optical, acoustic, RF, inertial, and bioelectric. Simple sensor processing algorithms and wired and wireless network standards are also discussed. Students are required to complete written assignments, a set of laboratories, and a final project.
MAS.845 | Special Topics in Cinematic Storytelling | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-845-special-topics-in-cinematic-storytelling-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Glorianna Davenport,  Barbara Barry<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Spring 2004 features:Projects and examples description:This seminar explores approaches to representation for distributed cinematic storytelling. The relationship between story creation and story appreciation is analyzed. Readings are drawn from literary and cinematic criticism, as well as from descriptions of interactive, distributed works. Students analyze a range of storytelling techniques; they develop a proposal using visualization techniques; and they prototype a working story experience, culminating in a final project displayed at the end of the semester.
MAS.857J | Optical Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-717j-optical-engineering-spring-2002 | textbook:G =  Goodman, Joseph W. Statistical Optics. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley-Interscience, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:George Barbastathis term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course concerns the theory and practice of optical methods in engineering and system design, with an emphasis on diffraction, statistical optics, holography, and imaging. It provides the engineering methodology skills necessary to incorporate optical components in systems serving diverse areas such as precision engineering and metrology, bio-imaging, and computing (sensors, data storage, communication in multi-processor systems). Experimental demonstrations and a design project are included.
MAS.863 | How to Make (Almost) Anything | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-863-how-to-make-almost-anything-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Chuang,  Neil Gershenfeld term:Fall 2002 features: description:This course provides a hands-on introduction to the resources for designing and fabricating smart systems, including CAD/CAM/CAE; NC machining, 3-D printing, injection molding, laser cutting; PCB layout and fabrication; sensors and actuators; analog instrumentation; embedded digital processing; wired and wireless communications. This course also puts emphasis on learning how to use the tools as well as understand how they work.
MAS.865J | Quantum Information Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-865j-quantum-information-science-spring-2006 | textbook:Nielsen, Michael A., and Isaac L. Chuang. Quantum Computation and Quantum Information. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Chuang,  Peter Shor term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This is an advanced graduate course on quantum computation and quantum information, for which prior knowledge of quantum mechanics is required. Topics include quantum computation, advanced quantum error correction codes, fault tolerance, quantum algorithms beyond factoring, properties of quantum entanglement, and quantum protocols and communication complexity.
MAS.878 | Special Topics in Multimedia Production: Experiences in Interactive Art (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-878-special-topics-in-multimedia-production-experiences-in-interactive-art-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Glorianna Davenport,  Stephen Benton,  Ali Mazalek<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Fall 2003 features: description:This class deals with interactive art. Visiting artists will discuss their work from a theoretical and practical perspective. Discussions of the history of interactive digital art and contemporary issues in the field will take place. Students will develop an interactive art project for a final exhibition or submit a short paper.
MAS.961 | Networks, Complexity and Its Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-961-networks-complexity-and-its-applications-spring-2011 | textbook:Barabási, Albert-László, and Jennifer Frangos. "Six Degrees of Separation." In Linked: The New Science Of Networks. Perseus Books Group, 2002, pp. 25-40. textbook:———. "Hubs and Connectors." In Linked: The New Science Of Networks. Perseus Books Group, 2002, pp. 55-64. textbook:———. "The 80/20 Rule." In Linked: The New Science Of Networks. Perseus Books Group, 2002, pp. 65-78. textbook:Barabási, Albert-László, and Jennifer Frangos. "Achilles' Heel." In Linked: The New Science Of Networks. Perseus Books Group, 2002, pp. 109-22. textbook:———. "Viruses and Fads." In Linked: The New Science Of Networks. Perseus Books Group, 2002, pp. 123-42. textbook:———. "The Rich Get Richer." In Linked: The New Science Of Networks. Perseus Books Group, 2002, pp. 79-92. textbook:Scott, J. C. Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed (The Institution for Social and Policy Studies at Yale University). New Haven, CT: Yale Univeristy Press, 1999. textbook:Jacobs., J. Cities and the Wealth of Nations. New York, NY: Random House, 1985. textbook:Mayr, E. What Evolution Is. New York, NY: Basic Books, 2001. textbook:Beinhocker, E. D. The Origin of Wealth: Evolution, Complexity, and the Radical Remaking of Economics. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2006. textbook:Page, S. E. The Difference: How the Power of Diversity Creates Better Groups, Firms, Schools, and Societies. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2007. textbook:Kauffmann, S. A. The Origins of Order: Self-Organization and Selection in Evolution. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1993. textbook:Mandelbrot, B. B. The Fractal Geometry of Nature. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1982. textbook:Smith, Adam. Chapter 4 in An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. University Of Chicago Press, 1977. level:Graduate instructors:Cesar Hidalgo term:Spring 2011 features:Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:Networks are a ubiquitous way to represent complex systems, including those in the social and economic sciences. The goal of the course is to equip students with conceptual tools that can help them understand complex systems that emerge in both nature and social systems. This is a course intended for a general audience and will discuss applications of networks and complexity to diverse systems, including epidemic spreading, social networks and the evolution of economic development.
MAS.961 | Special Topics: Designing Sociable Media | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-961-special-topics-designing-sociable-media-spring-2008 | textbook:Lakoff, George, and Mark Johnson. "The Grounding of Structural Metaphors," "Causation: Partly Emergent and Partly Metaphorical," and "The Coherent Structuring of Experience." Chapters 13-15 in Metaphors We Live By. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1980, pp. 61-86. textbook:Arnheim, Rudolf. "The Intelligence of Visual Perception [i]," and "The Intelligence of Visual Perception [ii]." Chapters 2 and 3 in Visual Thinking. Berkely, CA: University of California Press, 2004, pp. 13-53. textbook:Norman, Donald. "The Psychology of Everday Actions." In The Design of Everyday Things. New York, NY: Basic Books, 2002. textbook:Dondis, Donis A. "Composition: The Syntactical Guidelines for Visual Literacy," and "The Basic Elements of Visual Communication." Chapters 2 and 3 in A Primer of Visual Literacy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1973. textbook:Bonvillain, Nancy. "Communicative Interactions." Chapter 5 in Language, Culture and Communication. 5th ed. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2007. textbook:Robinson, John P., and Geoffrey Godbey. "Measuring How People Spend Time." Chapter 4 in Time for Life: The Surprising Ways Americans Use Their Time. 2nd ed. University Park, PA: Penn State Press, 1999. textbook:Aveni, Anthony. "The Basic Rhythms," "The Western Calendar," and "Building on the Basic Rhythms." Chapters 1, 3, and 10 in Empires of Time: Calendars, Clocks, and Culture. Revised ed. Boulder, CO: University Press of Colorado, 2002. textbook:Brilliant, Richard. "Fashioning the Self." Chapter 2 in Portraiture. Reaktion Books, 1991. textbook:West, Shearer. "What is a Portrait?" and "The Functions of Portraiture." Chapters 1 and 2 in Portraiture. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Foucault, Michel. "Panopticism." Chapter 3 in Discipline & Punish: The Birth of the Prison. Translated from the French by Alan Sheridan. New York, NY: Vintage Books, 1995. textbook:Schor, Juliet. "The Virus Unleashed: Ads Infiltrate Everyday Life," and "Dissecting the Child Consumer: The New Intrusive Research." Chapters 4 and 6 in Born to Buy: The Commercialized Child and the New Consumer Culture. New York, NY: Simon and Schuster, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Judith Donath term:Spring 2008 features:Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions description:This project-based course explores new design strategies for social interaction in the computer mediated world. Through weekly readings and design assignments we will examine topics such as:Data-based portraitureDepicting growth, change and the passage of timeVisualizing conversations, crowds, and networksInterfaces for the connected cityMobile social technologiesThe course emphasizes developing visual and interactive literacy. 
MAS.961 | Ambient Intelligence | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-961-ambient-intelligence-spring-2005 | textbook:Oppermann, et al. "Hippie: A Nomadic Information System." In Proceedings of the 1st International symposium on Handheld and Ubiquitous Computing. London, UK: Springer-Verlag, 1999. textbook:Csikszentmihalyi. The Meaning of Things. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1981. textbook:Kopytoff, I. "The Cultural Biography of Things: Commodification as Process." In The Social Life of Things: Commodities in Cultural Perspective. Edited by Arjun Appadurai. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1988. textbook:Mc Gracken, G. Culture and Consumption: New Approaches to the Symbolic Character of Consumer Goods and Activities. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 1991. textbook:Appadurai, Arjun, ed. The Social Life of Things: Commodities in Cultural Perspective. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1988. textbook:Merk, Lothar, et al., eds. Pervasive Computing Handbook. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag Telos, 2001. textbook:Mitchell, W. Me++. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Patricia Maes term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course will provide an overview of a new vision for Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) in which people are surrounded by intelligent and intuitive interfaces embedded in the everyday objects around them. It will focus on understanding enabling technologies and studying applications and experiments, and, to a lesser extent, it will address the socio-cultural impact. Students will read and discuss the most relevant articles in related areas: smart environments, smart networked objects, augmented and mixed realities, ubiquitous computing, pervasive computing, tangible computing, intelligent interfaces and wearable computing. Finally, they will be asked to come up with new ideas and start innovative projects in this area.
MAS.961 | Seminar on Deep Engagement | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-961-seminar-on-deep-engagement-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Cynthia Breazeal,  Glorianna Davenport term:Fall 2004 features:Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions description:Innovation in expression, as realized in media, tangible objects, performance and more, &nbsp;generates new questions and new potentials for human engagement. When and how does expression engage us deeply? Many personal stories confirm the hypothesis that once we experience deep engagement, it is a state we long for, remember, and want to repeat. This class will explore&nbsp;what&nbsp;underlying&nbsp;principles and innovative methods can ensure the development of higher-quality "deep engagement"&nbsp;products (artifacts, experiences, environments, performances, etc.) that appeal to a broad audience and that have lasting value over the long term.
MAS.961 | Numeric Photography | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-961-numeric-photography-fall-1998 | textbook:Mitchell, William. The Reconfigured Eye: Visual Truth in the Post-Photographic Era. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1992. level:Graduate instructors:John Maeda term:Fall 1998 features: description:The aim of the students from the Numeric Photography class at the MIT Media Laboratory was to present an exhibition of digital artworks which blend photography and computation, in the context of scene capture, image play, and interaction. Equipped with low end digital cameras, students created weekly software projects to explore aesthetic issues in signal processing and interaction design. The results are more than a hundred Java&reg; applets, many of which are interactive, that suggest new avenues for image play on the computer. These weekly exercises led to the final product, an exhibition of the student work.
MAS.962 | Special Topics: New Textiles | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-962-special-topics-new-textiles-spring-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Leah Buechley term:Spring 2010 features:Special feature - video, Image galleries, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions description:This project-based course will explore the future of textiles, focusing particularly on blending rich crafting traditions with new technologies. Topics will include textile-based electronics, textile fabrication, algorithmic pattern design, and composites. We will experiment with a wide range of fibers, yarns, and fabrics including traditional materials like wool and cotton as well as metal fibers and yarns, fusible plastics, papers, and resins. We will also explore techniques like felting, laser cutting, CNC knitting, digital printing, and CNC embroidery. Students will complete weekly hands-on assignments and a final project.
MAS.962 | Common Sense Reasoning for Interactive Applications (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-962-common-sense-reasoning-for-interactive-applications-fall-2006 | textbook:Musa, Rami, Madleina Scheidegger, Andrea Kulas, and Yoan Anguilet. "GloBuddy, a Dynamic Broad Context Phrase Book." In Modeling and Using Context (Proceedings of the 4th International and Interdisciplinary Conference, CONTEXT 2003, Stanford, CA, USA, June 23-25, 2003). Edited by Patrick Blackburn, Chiara Ghidini, Roy M. Turner, and Fausto Giunchiglia. New York, NY: Springer, 2003, pp. 467-474. textbook:Chung, J., R. Kern, and H. Lieberman. "Topic Spotting Common Sense Translation Assistant." In CHI '05 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 1280-1283. textbook:Lieberman, Henry, and Sybil Shearin. "Intelligent Profiling by Example." In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2001, pp. 145-151. textbook:Anacleto, J. C., A. F. P. De Carvalho, V. P. A. Neris, M. S. Godoi, S. Zem-Mascarenhas, and A. Talarico Neto. "How Can Common Sense Support Instructors with Distance Education?" In XVII Simpósio Brasileiro de Informática na Educação. Brasília, Brazil: SBIE, 2006, pp. 217-226. textbook:Lieberman, H., and J. Espinosa. "A Goal-oriented Interface to Consumer Electronics Using Planning and Commonsense Reasoning." In Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 226-233. textbook:Faaborg, A., and H. Lieberman. "A Goal-oriented Web Browser." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Edited by R. Grinter, T. Rodden, P. Aoki, E. Cutrell, R. Jeffries, and G. Olson. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2006, pp. 751-760. textbook:Liu, Hugo, Henry Lieberman, and Ted Selker. "Goose: A Goal-oriented Search Engine with Commonsense." In Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2003, pp. 253-263. textbook:Lieberman, H., and Ashwani Kumar. "Providing Expert Advice by Analogy for On-line Help." In Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Intelligent Agent Technology. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society, 2005, pp. 26-32. textbook:Stocky, T., A. Faaborg, and H. Lieberman. "A Commonsense Approach to Predictive Text Entry." In CHI '04 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 1163-1166. textbook:Mueller, E. T. "A Calendar with Common Sense." In Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2000, pp.198-201. textbook:Lieberman, H., A. Faaborg, W. Daher, and J. Espinosa. "How to Wreck a Nice Beach You Sing Calm Incense." In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 278-280. textbook:Singh, P., and W. Williams. "LifeNet: A Propositional Model of Ordinary Human Activity." In Proceedings of the Workshop on Distributed and Collaborative Knowledge Capture at K-CAP 2003. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2003. textbook:Espinosa, Jose, and Henry Lieberman. "EventNet: Inferring Temporal Relations between Commonsense Events." In Proceedings of the 4th Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Edited by Alexander Gelbukh, Álvaro de Albornoz, and Hugo Terashima-Marín. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2005. textbook:Mueller, Erik. Commonsense Reasoning. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2006. textbook:Chklovski, T., and Y. Gil. "Improving the Design of Intelligent Acquisition Interfaces for Collecting World Knowledge from Web Contributors." In Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Knowledge Capture. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 35-42. textbook:Matuszek, Cynthia, M. Witbrock, R. Kahlert, J. Cabral, D. Schneider, P. Shah, and D. Lenat. "Searching for Common Sense: Populating Cyc from the Web." In Proceedings of the Twentieth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Pittsburgh, PA: AAAI Press, 2005. textbook:von Ahn, L., and Dabbish, L. "Labeling Images with a Computer Game." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 319-326. textbook:Vanderwende, Lucy. "Volunteers Created the Web." In Knowledge Collection from Volunteer Contributors: Papers from the 2005 Spring Symposium. Edited by Timothy Chklovski, Pedro Domingos, Henry Lieberman, Rada Mihalcea, and Push Singh. Menlo Park, CA: AAAI Press, 2005, pp. 84-90. textbook:Liu, H., H. Lieberman, and T. Selker. "A Model of Textual Affect Sensing Using Real-world Knowledge." In Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2003, pp. 125-132. textbook:Liu, Hugo, and Pattie Maes. "What Would They Think? A Computational Model of Attitudes." In Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Intelligent User Interface. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 38-45. textbook:Mueller, Erik T., and Dyer, Michael G. "Towards a Computational Theory of Human Daydreaming." In Proceedings of the Seventh Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1986, pp. 120-129. textbook:Binsted, K., and G. Ritchie. "An Implemented Model of Punning Riddles." In Proceedings of the Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Vol. 1. Menlo Park, CA: AAAI Press, 1994, pp. 633-638. textbook:Liu, Hugo, and Pattie Maes. "The Aesthetiscope: Visualizing Aesthetic Readings of Text in Color Space." In Proceedings of the Eighteenth International Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Society Conference. Menlo Park, CA: AAAI Press, 2005, pp. 74-79. level:Graduate instructors:Henry Lieberman term:Fall 2006 features:Projects and examples description:This course will explore the state of the art in common sense knowledge, and class projects will design and build interfaces that can exploit this knowledge to make more usable and helpful interfaces.This year's theme will be about how common sense knowledge differs in different languages and cultures, and how machine understanding of this knowledge can help increase communication between people, and between people and machines.
MAS.962 | The Nature of Constructionist Learning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-962-the-nature-of-constructionist-learning-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Bakhtiar Mikhak term:Spring 2003 features:Projects and examples description:This course examines the philosophical and theoretical foundations of constructionism as a paradigm for formulating and evaluating new theories for learning and approaches to education. One of the goals of this course is to help new learning researchers situate their work within the constructionist framework through readings and projects that will focus on the rich interplay between the process of knowledge construction and the development and co-evolution of ideas, learners, tools, and contexts.
MAS.962 | Special Topics in Media Technology: Computational Semantics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-962-special-topics-in-media-technology-computational-semantics-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Deb Roy term:Fall 2002 features: description:How do words get their meanings? How can word meanings be represented and used by machines? We will explore three families of approaches to these questions from a computational perspective. Relational / structural methods such as semantic networks represent the meaning of words in terms of their relations to other words. Knowledge of the world through perception and action leads to the notion of external grounding, a process by which word meanings are 'attached' to the world. How an agent theorizes about, and conceptualizes its world provides yet another foundation for word meanings. We will examine each of these perspectives, and consider ways to integrate them.
MAS.962 | Digital Typography | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-962-digital-typography-fall-1997 | textbook:Bringhurst, Robert. The Elements of Typographic Style. Vancouver, BC: Hartley and Marks Publishers, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:John Maeda term:Fall 1997 features: description:This class introduces studies in the algorithmic manipulation of type as word, symbol, and form. Problems covered will include semantic filtering, inherently unstable letterforms, and spoken letters.&nbsp;The history and traditions of typography, and their entry into the digital age, will be studied. Weekly assignments using Java&reg;&nbsp;will explore new ways of looking at and manipulating type.
MAS.963 | Technological Tools for School Reform | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-963-technological-tools-for-school-reform-fall-2005 | textbook:Sirianni, C., and L. Friedland. "Civic Innovation and American Politics." In Civic Innovation in America. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Bakhtiar Mikhak term:Fall 2005 features:Projects and examples description:This course explores the potential impact of modern technologies on the school reforms debate. The first part of the course provides an overview of the current state of the school reform debate and reviews the ideas in the progressive school reform movement, as well as examining the new public charter school in Cambridge as a case study. The second part of the course requires critical study of research projects that hold promise as inspirations and guidelines for concrete multidisciplinary activities and curriculum for progressive charter schools. The course concludes with a discussion of the challenges in scaling the successful innovations in school reform to new contexts.
MAS.963 | Techno-identity: Who we are and how we perceive ourselves and others | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-963-techno-identity-who-we-are-and-how-we-perceive-ourselves-and-others-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Judith Donath term:Spring 2002 features: description:The nature of human identity - how we think of ourselves, how we perceive others - is a mutable concept, changing with the rise and fall of religious beliefs, social mores, philosophical theories. Today, we live in a world in which science and technology are among the most powerful forces reshaping our culture - and thus our definitions and perceptions of identity. In this seminar, we will examine the impact of science and technology on identity.The instructor's course page may be viewed at http://smg.media.mit.edu/classes/IdentitySeminar/
MAS.963 | Out of Context: A Course on Computer Systems That Adapt To, and Learn From, Context | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-963-out-of-context-a-course-on-computer-systems-that-adapt-to-and-learn-from-context-fall-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Henry Lieberman term:Fall 2001 features:Selected lecture notes description:Increasingly, we are realizing that to make computer systems more intelligent and responsive to users, we will have to make them more sensitive to context. Traditional hardware and software design overlooks context because it conceptualizes systems as input-output functions. Systems take input explicitly given to them by a human, act upon that input alone and produce explicit output. But this view is too restrictive. Smart computers, intelligent agent software, and digital devices of the future will also have to operate on data that they observe or gather for themselves. They may have to sense their environment, decide which aspects of a situation are really important, and infer the user's intention from concrete actions. The system's actions may be dependent on time, place, or the history of interaction, in other words, dependent upon context.But what exactly is context? We'll look at perspectives from machine learning, sensors and embedded devices, information visualization, philosophy and psychology. We'll see how each treats the problem of context, and discuss the implications for design of context-sensitive hardware and software.Course requirements will consist of critiques of class readings (about 3 papers/week), and a final project (paper or computer implementation project).
MAS.964 | Common Sense Reasoning for Interactive Applications (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-962-common-sense-reasoning-for-interactive-applications-fall-2006 | textbook:Musa, Rami, Madleina Scheidegger, Andrea Kulas, and Yoan Anguilet. "GloBuddy, a Dynamic Broad Context Phrase Book." In Modeling and Using Context (Proceedings of the 4th International and Interdisciplinary Conference, CONTEXT 2003, Stanford, CA, USA, June 23-25, 2003). Edited by Patrick Blackburn, Chiara Ghidini, Roy M. Turner, and Fausto Giunchiglia. New York, NY: Springer, 2003, pp. 467-474. textbook:Chung, J., R. Kern, and H. Lieberman. "Topic Spotting Common Sense Translation Assistant." In CHI '05 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 1280-1283. textbook:Lieberman, Henry, and Sybil Shearin. "Intelligent Profiling by Example." In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2001, pp. 145-151. textbook:Anacleto, J. C., A. F. P. De Carvalho, V. P. A. Neris, M. S. Godoi, S. Zem-Mascarenhas, and A. Talarico Neto. "How Can Common Sense Support Instructors with Distance Education?" In XVII Simpósio Brasileiro de Informática na Educação. Brasília, Brazil: SBIE, 2006, pp. 217-226. textbook:Lieberman, H., and J. Espinosa. "A Goal-oriented Interface to Consumer Electronics Using Planning and Commonsense Reasoning." In Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 226-233. textbook:Faaborg, A., and H. Lieberman. "A Goal-oriented Web Browser." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Edited by R. Grinter, T. Rodden, P. Aoki, E. Cutrell, R. Jeffries, and G. Olson. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2006, pp. 751-760. textbook:Liu, Hugo, Henry Lieberman, and Ted Selker. "Goose: A Goal-oriented Search Engine with Commonsense." In Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2003, pp. 253-263. textbook:Lieberman, H., and Ashwani Kumar. "Providing Expert Advice by Analogy for On-line Help." In Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Intelligent Agent Technology. Washington, DC: IEEE Computer Society, 2005, pp. 26-32. textbook:Stocky, T., A. Faaborg, and H. Lieberman. "A Commonsense Approach to Predictive Text Entry." In CHI '04 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 1163-1166. textbook:Mueller, E. T. "A Calendar with Common Sense." In Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2000, pp.198-201. textbook:Lieberman, H., A. Faaborg, W. Daher, and J. Espinosa. "How to Wreck a Nice Beach You Sing Calm Incense." In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 278-280. textbook:Singh, P., and W. Williams. "LifeNet: A Propositional Model of Ordinary Human Activity." In Proceedings of the Workshop on Distributed and Collaborative Knowledge Capture at K-CAP 2003. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2003. textbook:Espinosa, Jose, and Henry Lieberman. "EventNet: Inferring Temporal Relations between Commonsense Events." In Proceedings of the 4th Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Edited by Alexander Gelbukh, Álvaro de Albornoz, and Hugo Terashima-Marín. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2005. textbook:Mueller, Erik. Commonsense Reasoning. San Francisco, CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2006. textbook:Chklovski, T., and Y. Gil. "Improving the Design of Intelligent Acquisition Interfaces for Collecting World Knowledge from Web Contributors." In Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Knowledge Capture. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2005, pp. 35-42. textbook:Matuszek, Cynthia, M. Witbrock, R. Kahlert, J. Cabral, D. Schneider, P. Shah, and D. Lenat. "Searching for Common Sense: Populating Cyc from the Web." In Proceedings of the Twentieth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Pittsburgh, PA: AAAI Press, 2005. textbook:von Ahn, L., and Dabbish, L. "Labeling Images with a Computer Game." In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 319-326. textbook:Vanderwende, Lucy. "Volunteers Created the Web." In Knowledge Collection from Volunteer Contributors: Papers from the 2005 Spring Symposium. Edited by Timothy Chklovski, Pedro Domingos, Henry Lieberman, Rada Mihalcea, and Push Singh. Menlo Park, CA: AAAI Press, 2005, pp. 84-90. textbook:Liu, H., H. Lieberman, and T. Selker. "A Model of Textual Affect Sensing Using Real-world Knowledge." In Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2003, pp. 125-132. textbook:Liu, Hugo, and Pattie Maes. "What Would They Think? A Computational Model of Attitudes." In Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Intelligent User Interface. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 38-45. textbook:Mueller, Erik T., and Dyer, Michael G. "Towards a Computational Theory of Human Daydreaming." In Proceedings of the Seventh Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1986, pp. 120-129. textbook:Binsted, K., and G. Ritchie. "An Implemented Model of Punning Riddles." In Proceedings of the Twelfth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence. Vol. 1. Menlo Park, CA: AAAI Press, 1994, pp. 633-638. textbook:Liu, Hugo, and Pattie Maes. "The Aesthetiscope: Visualizing Aesthetic Readings of Text in Color Space." In Proceedings of the Eighteenth International Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Society Conference. Menlo Park, CA: AAAI Press, 2005, pp. 74-79. level:Graduate instructors:Henry Lieberman term:Fall 2006 features:Projects and examples description:This course will explore the state of the art in common sense knowledge, and class projects will design and build interfaces that can exploit this knowledge to make more usable and helpful interfaces.This year's theme will be about how common sense knowledge differs in different languages and cultures, and how machine understanding of this knowledge can help increase communication between people, and between people and machines.
MAS.964 | Common Sense Reasoning for Interactive Applications (Fall 2002) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-964-common-sense-reasoning-for-interactive-applications-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Henry Lieberman term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course will explore the state of the art in common sense knowledge, and class projects will design and build interfaces that can exploit this knowledge to make more usable and helpful interfaces.Course requirements will consist of critiques of class readings (about 2 papers/week), and a final project (paper or computer implementation project). Grades will be based primarily on the projects, as well as a small component for class and online participation
MAS.965 | Relational Machines | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-965-relational-machines-spring-2005 | textbook:Norman, Don. "Emotional Machines." Chapter 6 in Emotional Design. New York, NY: Basic Books, 2003. textbook:Fogg, B. J. "Overview of Captology." Chapter 1 in Persuasive Technology. Amsterdam, Netherlands: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2002. textbook:Duck, Steve. "Interaction and Daily Life in Long-term Relationships." In Human Relationships. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1998. textbook:Collis, Glyn M., and June McNicholas. "A Theoretical Basis for Health Benefits of Pet Ownership: Attachment Versus Psychological Support." In Companion Animals in Human Health. Edited by Cindy C. Wilson and Dennis C. Turner. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 1997. textbook:Harvey, J., and S. Hendrick. "Self-Report Methods in Studying Personal Relationships." In Handbook of Personal Relationships: Theory, Research, and Interventions. Edited by Steve Duck. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1981, pp. 99-113. textbook:Kenny, D. "The Analysis of Data from Two-Person Relationships." In Handbook of Personal Relationships: Theory, Research, and Interventions. Edited by Steve Duck. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1988, pp. 57-77. textbook:Kahn, Peter H., Jr., Batya Friedman, Deanne R. Perez-Granados, and Nathan G. Freier. "Robotic pets in the lives of preschool children." In CHI Extended Abstracts. New York, NY: ACM Press, 2004, pp. 1449-1452. textbook:Yanco, Holly A. "Wheelesley: A Robotic Wheelchair System: Indoor Navigation and User Interface." In Lecture Notes in Computer Science - Technology and Artificial Intelligence: Applications in Robotics, User Interfaces, and Natural Language Processing. Edited by V. O. Mittal, H. A. Yanco, J. Aronis, and R. Simpson. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Cynthia Breazeal term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course examines the issues, principles, and challenges toward building relational machines through a combination of studio-style design and critique along with lecture, lively discussion of course readings, and assignments. Insights from social psychology, human-computer interaction, and design will be examined, as well as how these ideas are manifest in a broad range of applications for software agents and robots.
MAS.965 | Social Visualization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-965-social-visualization-fall-2004 | textbook:Albers, Josef. Interaction of Color. Revised ed. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, September 10, 1975. textbook:Zakia, Richard D. "Art and Visual Perception." In Perception and Imaging. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Focal Press, December 2001. p. 18. textbook:Harris, Robert L. "The Semiology of Graphics." In Information Graphics: A Comprehensive Illustrated Reference. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, December 13, 1999. textbook:Nielson, Gregory M., Heinrich Mueller, and Hans Hagen, eds. "Scientific Visualization Overviews, Methodologies and Techniques." IEEE. Washington, DC: Computer Science Press, March 1997, pp. 191-210. level:Graduate instructors:Judith Donath term:Fall 2004 features:Projects and examples description:Millions of people are on-line today and the number is rapidly growing - yet this virtual crowd is often invisible. In this course we will examine ways of visualizing people, their activities and their interactions. Students will study the cognitive and cultural basis for social visualization through readings drawn from sociology, psychology and interface design and they will explore new ways of depicting virtual crowds and mapping electronic spaces through a series of design exercises.
MAS.965 | Special Topics in Media Technology: Cooperative Machines | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-965-special-topics-in-media-technology-cooperative-machines-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Cynthia Breazeal term:Fall 2003 features:Projects and examples description:This course examines the issues, principles, and challenges toward building machines that cooperate with humans and with other machines. Philosophical, scientific, and theoretical insights into this subject will be covered, as well as how these ideas are manifest in both natural and artificial systems (e.g. software agents and robots).
MAS.966 | Digital Anthropology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-966-digital-anthropology-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Alex Pentland term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:Digital Anthropology is a Spring 2003 applied social science and media arts seminar, surveying the blossoming arena of digital-artifact enabled experimental sociology/anthropology. We will emphasize on both (a) Technology Testbeds &#8211; systematically deploying research lab prototypes and corporate pre-production products in a sample human organizational population and carefully observing the social consequences, and (b) Sociometrics &#8211; using digital artifacts to better observe and measure the complex social reality of interesting human systems.
MAS.S63 | Engineering Health: Towards the Tricorder | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-s63-engineering-health-towards-the-tricorder-fall-2013 | level:Graduate instructors:Ramesh Raskar,  Jose Gomez-Marquez,  Anna Young term:Fall 2013 features: description:Students will learn to fabricate, remix, and design detection and monitoring devices for health following the core focus of the Tricorder: a portable, handheld diagnostic device which can brings health solutions to consumers at home or in remote parts of the world. Inspired by the Tricorder X-Prize (with a purse of $10 million), students will aim to create specific component technologies that integrate into a comprehensive Tricorder mechanism capable of reading vital signs and specific disease biomarker detection. Component areas will include optical, electric, biochemical, and molecular diagnostics.
MAS.S66 | Indistinguishable From... Magic as Interface, Technology, and Tradition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-s66-indistinguishable-from-magic-as-interface-technology-and-tradition-spring-2015 | textbook:Macknik, Stephen L. and Susana Martinez-Conde. Sleights of Mind: What the Neuroscience of Magic Reveals About Our Everyday Deceptions. Picador, 2011. textbook:Melton, H. Keith, and Wallace, Robert. Excerpts from The Official CIA Manual of Trickery and Deception. William Morrow Paperbacks, 2010. textbook:Harrington, Brooke. Chapters 1, 3, 4, 8 and 11 in Deception: From Ancient Empires to Internet Dating. Stanford University Press, 2009. textbook:Trivers, Robert. Chapter 16 in Social Evolution. Benjamin-Cummings Publication Company, 1985. textbook:Woolley, Benjamin. The Queen's Conjurer: The Science and Magic of Dr. John Dee, Adviser to Queen Elizabeth I. Holt Paperbacks, 2002. textbook:Rose, David. Enchanted Objects: Design, Human Desire, and the Internet of Things. Scribner, 2014, pp. 75–154. textbook:Montola, Markus, Stenros, Jaakko, and Waern, Annika. Chapter 1 in Pervasive Games: Theory and Design. CRC Press, 2009. level:Graduate instructors:Greg Borenstein,  Dan Novy term:Spring 2015 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:With a focus on the creation of functional prototypes and practicing real magical crafts, this class combines theatrical illusion, game design, sleight of hand, machine learning, camouflage, and neuroscience to explore how ideas from ancient magic and modern stage illusion can inform cutting edge technology.
