18.01SC | Single Variable Calculus (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-01sc-single-variable-calculus-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:David Jerison term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This calculus course covers differentiation and integration of functions of one variable, and concludes with a brief discussion of infinite series. Calculus is fundamental to many scientific disciplines including physics, engineering, and economics.
18.01 | Single Variable Calculus (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-01-single-variable-calculus-fall-2006 | textbook:"Text" refers to the course textbook:  Simmons, George F. Calculus with Analytic Geometry. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, October 1, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Jerison term:Fall 2006 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This introductory calculus course covers differentiation and integration of functions of one variable, with applications.
18.01 | Single Variable Calculus (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-01-single-variable-calculus-fall-2005 | textbook:Simmons, George F. Calculus with Analytic Geometry. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, October 1, 1995. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jason Starr term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This introductory calculus course covers differentiation and integration of functions of one variable, with applications.
18.013A | Calculus with Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-013a-calculus-with-applications-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Kleitman term:Spring 2005 features:Online textbooks description:This is an undergraduate course on differential calculus in one and several dimensions. It is intended as a one and a half term course in calculus for students who have studied calculus in high school. The format allows it to be entirely self contained, so that it is possible to follow it without any background in calculus.
18.014 | Calculus with Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-014-calculus-with-theory-fall-2010 | textbook:Apostol, Tom M. Calculus, Volume 1: One-Variable Calculus, with An Introduction to Linear Algebra. Waltham, Mass: Blaisdell, 1967. level:Undergraduate instructors:Christine Breiner term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:18.014, Calculus with Theory, covers the same material as 18.01 (Single Variable Calculus), but at a deeper and more rigorous level. It emphasizes careful reasoning and understanding of proofs. The course assumes knowledge of elementary calculus.
18.02SC | Multivariable Calculus (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-02sc-multivariable-calculus-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Denis Auroux term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers differential, integral and vector calculus for functions of more than one variable. These mathematical tools and methods are used extensively in the physical sciences, engineering, economics and computer graphics.
18.02 | Multivariable Calculus (Fall 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-02-multivariable-calculus-fall-2007 | textbook:"Text" refers to the course textbook:  Edwards, Henry C., and David E. Penney. Multivariable Calculus. 6th ed. Lebanon, IN: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Denis Auroux term:Fall 2007 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course covers vector and multi-variable calculus. It is the second semester in the freshman calculus sequence. Topics include vectors and matrices, partial derivatives, double and triple integrals, and vector calculus in 2 and 3-space. MIT OpenCourseWare offers another version of 18.02, from the Spring 2006 term. Both versions cover the same material, although they are taught by different faculty and rely on different textbooks. Multivariable Calculus (18.02) is taught during the Fall and Spring terms at MIT, and is a required subject for all MIT undergraduates.
18.02 | Multivariable Calculus (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-02-multivariable-calculus-spring-2006 | textbook:"Text" refers to the course textbook:  Simmons, George F. Calculus with Analytic Geometry. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1995. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Jerison,  Arthur Mattuck term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers vector and multi-variable calculus. It is the second semester in the freshman calculus sequence. Topics include Vectors and Matrices, Partial Derivatives, Double and Triple Integrals, and Vector Calculus in 2 and 3-space.
18.022 | Calculus of Several Variables | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-022-calculus-of-several-variables-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:James McKernan term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This is a variation on 18.02 Multivariable Calculus. It covers the same topics as in 18.02, but with more focus on mathematical concepts.
18.024 | Multivariable Calculus with Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-024-multivariable-calculus-with-theory-spring-2011 | textbook:Apostol, Tom M. Calculus, Vol. 2: Multi-Variable Calculus and Linear Algebra with Applications to Differential Equations and Probability. Wiley, 1969. level:Undergraduate instructors:Christine Breiner term:Spring 2011 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is a continuation of 18.014. It covers the same material as 18.02 (Multivariable Calculus), but at a deeper level, emphasizing careful reasoning and understanding of proofs. There is considerable emphasis on linear algebra and vector integral calculus.
18.03SC | Differential Equations (Fall 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-03sc-differential-equations-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Arthur Mattuck,  Haynes Miller,  Jeremy Orloff, Dr. John Lewis term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:The laws of nature are expressed as differential equations. Scientists and engineers must know how to model the world in terms of differential equations, and how to solve those equations and interpret the solutions. This course focuses on the equations and techniques most useful in science and engineering.
18.03 | Differential Equations (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-03-differential-equations-spring-2010 | textbook:[EP] refers to the course textbook:  Edwards, C., and D. Penney. Elementary Differential Equations with Boundary Value Problems. 6th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Haynes Miller,  Arthur Mattuck term:Spring 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:Differential Equations are the language in which the laws of nature are expressed. Understanding properties of solutions of differential equations is fundamental to much of contemporary science and engineering. Ordinary differential equations (ODE's) deal with functions of one variable, which can often be thought of as time.
18.034 | Honors Differential Equations (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-034-honors-differential-equations-spring-2009 | textbook:Birkhoff, Garret, and Gian-Carlo Rota. Ordinary Differential Equations. 4th ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 1989. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Vera Mikyoung Hur term:Spring 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions description:This course covers the same material as Differential Equations (18.03) with more emphasis on theory. In addition, it treats mathematical aspects of ordinary differential equations such as existence theorems.
18.034 | Honors Differential Equations (Spring 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-034-honors-differential-equations-spring-2004 | textbook:The readings referred to in the table are from the text:  Borrelli, R. and C. Coleman. Differential Equations: A Modeling Perspective. Wiley Text Books, 2nd ed., New York, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jason Starr term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the same material as 18.03 with more emphasis on theory. Topics include first order equations, separation, initial value problems, systems, linear equations, independence of solutions, undetermined coefficients, and singular points and periodic orbits for planar systems.
18.04 | Complex Variables with Applications (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-04-complex-variables-with-applications-fall-2003 | textbook:The readings below were found in the textbook:  Saff, Edward B., and Arthur David Snider. Fundamentals of Complex Analysis with Applications to Engineering, Science, and Mathematics. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Alar Toomre term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course explored topics such as complex algebra and functions, analyticity, contour integration, Cauchy's theorem, singularities, Taylor and Laurent series, residues, evaluation of integrals, multivalued functions, potential theory in two dimensions, Fourier analysis and Laplace transforms.
18.04 | Complex Variables with Applications (Fall 1999) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-04-complex-variables-with-applications-fall-1999 | textbook:Saff, Edward and Arthur David Snider. Fundamentals of Complex Analysis. 3nd ed. Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:R. Rosales term:Fall 1999 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:The following topics are covered in the course: complex algebra and functions; analyticity; contour integration, Cauchy's theorem; singularities, Taylor and Laurent series; residues, evaluation of integrals; multivalued functions, potential theory in two dimensions; Fourier analysis and Laplace transforms.
18.05 | Introduction to Probability and Statistics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-05-introduction-to-probability-and-statistics-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jeremy Orloff,  Jonathan Bloom term:Spring 2014 features:Selected video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an elementary introduction to probability and statistics with applications. Topics include: basic combinatorics, random variables, probability distributions, Bayesian inference, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, and linear regression. The Spring 2014 version of this subject employed the residential MITx system, which enables on-campus subjects to provide MIT students with learning and assessment tools such as online problem sets, lecture videos, reading questions, pre-lecture questions, problem set assistance, tutorial videos, exam review content, and even online exams.
18.06SC | Linear Algebra (Fall 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06sc-linear-algebra-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Gilbert Strang term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, Recitation videos description:This course covers matrix theory and linear algebra, emphasizing topics useful in other disciplines such as physics, economics and social sciences, natural sciences, and engineering.
18.06 | Linear Algebra (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06-linear-algebra-spring-2010 | textbook:The readings are assigned in:  Strang, Gilbert. Introduction to Linear Algebra. 4th ed. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, February 2009. level:Undergraduate instructors:Gilbert Strang term:Spring 2010 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Tutorial - video, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This is a basic subject on matrix theory and linear algebra. Emphasis is given to topics that will be useful in other disciplines, including systems of equations, vector spaces, determinants, eigenvalues, similarity, and positive definite matrices.
18.062J | Mathematics for Computer Science (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Tom Leighton, Dr. Marten van  Dijk term:Fall 2010 features:Video lectures, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course covers elementary discrete mathematics for computer science and engineering. It emphasizes mathematical definitions and proofs as well as applicable methods. Topics include formal logic notation, proof methods; induction, well-ordering; sets, relations; elementary graph theory; integer congruences; asymptotic notation and growth of functions; permutations and combinations, counting principles; discrete probability. Further selected topics may also be covered, such as recursive definition and structural induction; state machines and invariants; recurrences; generating functions.
18.062J | Mathematics for Computer Science (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Albert R. Meyer term:Spring 2010 features:Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This subject offers an introduction to Discrete Mathematics oriented toward Computer Science and Engineering. The subject coverage divides roughly into thirds:   Fundamental concepts of mathematics: definitions, proofs, sets, functions, relations.  Discrete structures: graphs, state machines, modular arithmetic, counting.  Discrete probability theory.   On completion of 6.042, students will be able to explain and apply the basic methods of discrete (noncontinuous) mathematics in Computer Science. They will be able to use these methods in subsequent courses in the design and analysis of algorithms, computability theory, software engineering, and computer systems.
18.062J | Mathematics for Computer Science (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Ronitt Rubinfeld,  Albert R. Meyer term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This is an introductory course in Discrete Mathematics oriented toward Computer Science and Engineering. The course divides roughly into thirds:Fundamental Concepts of Mathematics: Definitions, Proofs, Sets, Functions, RelationsDiscrete Structures: Modular Arithmetic, Graphs, State Machines, CountingDiscrete Probability TheoryA version of this course from a&nbsp;previous term&nbsp;was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5512 (Mathematics for Computer Science).
18.062J | Mathematics for Computer Science (Spring 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-042j-mathematics-for-computer-science-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Charles Leiserson<br/>(Contributor), Dr. Eric Lehman,  Srinivas Devadas,  Albert R. Meyer<br/>(Contributor) term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course is offered to undergraduates and is an elementary discrete mathematics course oriented towards applications in computer science and engineering. Topics covered include: formal logic notation, induction, sets and relations, permutations and combinations, counting principles, and discrete probability.
18.06CI | Linear Algebra - Communications Intensive | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-06ci-linear-algebra-communications-intensive-spring-2004 | textbook:Strang, Gilbert. Introduction to Linear Algebra. 3rd ed. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, March 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Andrew Brooke-Taylor<br/>(Teaching Assistant), Dr. Anna Lachowska term:Spring 2004 features:Projects and examples description:This is a communication intensive supplement to Linear Algebra (18.06). The main emphasis is on the methods of creating rigorous and elegant proofs and presenting them clearly in writing. The course starts with the standard linear algebra syllabus and eventually develops the techniques to approach a more advanced topic: abstract root systems in a Euclidean space.
18.091 | Mathematical Exposition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-091-mathematical-exposition-spring-2005 | textbook:Devaney, Robert L. A First Course in Chaotic Dynamical Systems. New York, NY: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, The Advanced Book Program, 1995. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Emma Carberry term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course provides techniques of effective presentation of mathematical material. Each section of this course is associated with a regular mathematics subject, and uses the material of that subject as a basis for written and oral presentations. The section presented here is on chaotic dynamical systems.
18.098 | Street-Fighting Mathematics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-098-street-fighting-mathematics-january-iap-2008 | textbook:Mahajan, Sanjoy. Street-Fighting Mathematics: The Art of Educated Guessing and Opportunistic Problem Solving. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:January IAP 2008 features:Online textbooks, Assignments and solutions description:This course teaches the art of guessing results and solving problems without doing a proof or an exact calculation. Techniques include extreme-cases reasoning, dimensional analysis, successive approximation, discretization, generalization, and pictorial analysis. Applications include mental calculation, solid geometry, musical intervals, logarithms, integration, infinite series, solitaire, and differential equations. (No epsilons or deltas are harmed by taking this course.) This course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
18.100A | Introduction to Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-100a-introduction-to-analysis-fall-2012 | textbook:Mattuck, Arthur. Introduction to Analysis. Pearson, 1998. level:Undergraduate instructors:Arthur Mattuck term:Fall 2012 features: description:Analysis I (18.100) in its various versions covers fundamentals of mathematical analysis: continuity, differentiability, some form of the Riemann integral, sequences and series of numbers and functions, uniform convergence with applications to interchange of limit operations, some point-set topology, including some work in Euclidean n-space. MIT students may choose to take one of three versions of 18.100: Option A (18.100A) chooses less abstract definitions and proofs, and gives applications where possible. Option B (18.100B) is more demanding and for students with more mathematical maturity; it places more emphasis from the beginning on point-set topology and n-space, whereas Option A is concerned primarily with analysis on the real line, saving for the last weeks work in 2-space (the plane) and its point-set topology. Option C (18.100C) is a 15-unit variant of Option B, with further instruction and practice in written and oral communication.
18.100B | Analysis I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-100b-analysis-i-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Katrin Wehrheim term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Analysis I covers fundamentals of mathematical analysis: metric spaces, convergence of sequences and series, continuity, differentiability, Riemann integral, sequences and series of functions, uniformity, interchange of limit operations.
18.100C | Real Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-100c-real-analysis-fall-2012 | textbook:Rudin, Walter. Principles of Mathematical Analysis (International Series in Pure and Applied Mathematics). 3rd ed. McGraw-Hill, 1976. level:Undergraduate instructors:Paul Seidel term:Fall 2012 features: description:This course covers the fundamentals of mathematical analysis: convergence of sequences and series, continuity, differentiability, Riemann integral, sequences and series of functions, uniformity, and the interchange of limit operations. It shows the utility of abstract concepts and teaches an understanding and construction of proofs. MIT students may choose to take one of three versions of Real Analysis; this version offers three additional units of credit for instruction and practice in written and oral presentation.&nbsp;The three options for 18.100:    Option A (18.100A) chooses less abstract definitions and proofs, and gives applications where possible.    Option B (18.100B) is more demanding and for students with more mathematical maturity; it places more emphasis from the beginning on point-set topology and n-space, whereas Option A is concerned primarily with analysis on the real line, saving for the last weeks work in 2-space (the plane) and its point-set topology.    Option C (18.100C) is a 15-unit variant of Option B, with further instruction and practice in written and oral communication. This fulfills the MIT CI requirement.
18.101 | Analysis II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-101-analysis-ii-fall-2005 | textbook:(M)  Munkres, J. Analysis on Manifolds. Cambridge, MA: Perseus Publishing, 1991. textbook:(S)  Spivak, M. Calculus on Manifolds: A Modern Approach to Classical Theorems of Advanced Calculus. Cambridge, MA: Perseus Publishing, 1965. level:Undergraduate instructors:Victor Guillemin term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course continues from Analysis I (18.100B), in the direction of manifolds and global analysis. The first half of the course covers multivariable calculus. The rest of the course covers the theory of differential forms in n-dimensional vector spaces and manifolds.
18.102 | Introduction to Functional Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-102-introduction-to-functional-analysis-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Richard Melrose term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This is a undergraduate course. It will cover normed spaces, completeness, functionals, Hahn-Banach theorem, duality, operators; Lebesgue measure, measurable functions, integrability, completeness of L-p spaces; Hilbert space; compact, Hilbert-Schmidt and trace class operators; as well as spectral theorem.
18.103 | Fourier Analysis - Theory and Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-103-fourier-analysis-theory-and-applications-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Richard Melrose term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:18.103 picks up where 18.100B (Analysis I) left off. Topics covered include the theory of the Lebesgue integral with applications to probability, Fourier series, and Fourier integrals.
18.104 | Seminar in Analysis: Applications to Number Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-104-seminar-in-analysis-applications-to-number-theory-fall-2006 | textbook:Young, Robert M. Excursions In Calculus: An Interplay of The Continuous and The Discrete. Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1992. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Dan Ciubotaru term:Fall 2006 features: description:18.104 is an undergraduate level seminar for mathematics majors. Students present and discuss subject matter taken from current journals or books. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication is provided.  The topics vary from year to year. The topic for this term is Applications to Number Theory.
18.112 | Functions of a Complex Variable | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-112-functions-of-a-complex-variable-fall-2008 | textbook:Ahlfors, Lars V. Complex Analysis: An Introduction to the Theory of Analytic Functions of One Complex Variable. 3rd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1979. textbook:Caratheódory, Constantin. Theory of Functions of a Complex Variable. Rhode Island: AMS Chelsea Pub, 2001. textbook:Pólya, George, and Gábor Szego. Problems and Theorems in Analysis. Berlin: Springer, 1978. textbook:Rudin, Walter. Real and Complex Analysis. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1986. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sigurdur Helgason term:Fall 2008 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This is an advanced undergraduate course dealing with calculus in one complex variable with geometric emphasis. Since the course Analysis I (18.100B) is a prerequisite, topological notions like compactness, connectedness, and related properties of continuous functions are taken for granted. This course offers biweekly problem sets with solutions, two term tests and a final exam, all with solutions.
18.152 | Introduction to Partial Differential Equations (Fall 2011) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-152-introduction-to-partial-differential-equations-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jared  Speck term:Fall 2011 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course introduces three main types of partial differential equations: diffusion, elliptic, and hyperbolic. It includes mathematical tools, real-world examples and applications.
18.152 | Introduction to Partial Differential Equations (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-152-introduction-to-partial-differential-equations-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Tobias Colding term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides a solid introduction to Partial Differential Equations for advanced undergraduate students. The focus is on linear second order uniformly elliptic and parabolic equations.
18.238 | Geometry and Quantum Field Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-238-geometry-and-quantum-field-theory-fall-2002 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Pavel Etingof term:Fall 2002 features:Lecture notes description:Geometry and Quantum Field Theory, designed for mathematicians, is a rigorous introduction to perturbative quantum field theory, using the language of functional integrals. It covers the basics of classical field theory, free quantum theories and Feynman diagrams. The goal is to discuss, using mathematical language, a number of basic notions and results of QFT that are necessary to understand talks and papers in QFT and String Theory.
18.303 | Linear Partial Differential Equations: Analysis and Numerics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-303-linear-partial-differential-equations-analysis-and-numerics-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Steven G. Johnson term:Fall 2014 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course provides students with the basic analytical and computational tools of linear partial differential equations (PDEs) for practical applications in science engineering, including heat / diffusion, wave, and Poisson equations. Analytics emphasize the viewpoint of linear algebra and the analogy with finite matrix problems. Numerics focus on finite-difference and finite-element techniques to reduce PDEs to matrix problems. The Julia Language (a free, open-source environment) is introduced and used in homework for simple examples.
18.303 | Linear Partial Differential Equations | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-303-linear-partial-differential-equations-fall-2006 | textbook:Guenther, R. B., and J. W. Lee. Partial Differential Equations of Mathematical Physics and Integral Equations. New York, NY: Dover Publications, 1996. textbook:Myint-U, Tyn, and Lokenath Debnath. Linear Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers. 4th ed. Boston, MA: Birkhauser, 2006. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Matthew Hancock term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the classical partial differential equations of applied mathematics: diffusion, Laplace/Poisson, and wave equations. It also includes methods and tools for solving these PDEs, such as separation of variables, Fourier series and transforms, eigenvalue problems, and Green's functions.
18.304 | Undergraduate Seminar in Discrete Mathematics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-304-undergraduate-seminar-in-discrete-mathematics-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Omer Tamuz term:Spring 2015 features:Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is a student-presented seminar in combinatorics, graph theory, and discrete mathematics in general. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication is emphasized, with participants reading and presenting papers from recent mathematics literature and writing a final paper in a related topic.
18.310 | Principles of Discrete Applied Mathematics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-310-principles-of-discrete-applied-mathematics-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Michel Goemans,  Susan Ruff, Dr. Lorenzo Orecchia<br/>Recitation Instructor, Dr. Richard Peng<br/>Recitation Instructor term:Fall 2013 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to discrete applied mathematics. Topics include probability, counting, linear programming, number-theoretic algorithms, sorting, data compression, and error-correcting codes. This is a Communication Intensive in the Major (CI-M) course, and thus includes a writing component.
18.311 | Principles of Applied Mathematics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-311-principles-of-applied-mathematics-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Rodolfo Rosales term:Spring 2014 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:18.311 Principles of Continuum Applied Mathematics covers fundamental concepts in continuous applied mathematics, including applications from traffic flow, fluids, elasticity, granular flows, etc. The class also covers continuum limit; conservation laws, quasi-equilibrium; kinematic waves; characteristics, simple waves, shocks; diffusion (linear and nonlinear); numerical solution of wave equations; finite differences, consistency, stability; discrete and fast Fourier transforms; spectral methods; transforms and series (Fourier, Laplace). Additional topics may include sonic booms, Mach cone, caustics, lattices, dispersion, and group velocity.
18.312 | Algebraic Combinatorics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-312-algebraic-combinatorics-spring-2009 | textbook:Stanley, Richard P. Enumerative Combinatorics. Vol. 1. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:———. Enumerative Combinatorics. Vol. 2. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Gregg Musiker term:Spring 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This is an introductory course in algebraic combinatorics. No prior knowledge of combinatorics is expected, but assumes a familiarity with linear algebra and finite groups. Topics were chosen to show the beauty and power of techniques in algebraic combinatorics. Rigorous mathematical proofs are expected.
18.314 | Combinatorial Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-314-combinatorial-analysis-fall-2014 | textbook:Most of the readings are assigned from the required textbook  Bona, Miklos. A Walk Through Combinatorics: An Introduction to Enumeration and Graph Theory. World Scientific Publishing Company, 2011. level:Undergraduate instructors:Richard Stanley term:Fall 2014 features:Exams and solutions description:This course analyzes combinatorial problems and methods for their solution. Topics include: enumeration, generating functions, recurrence relations, construction of bijections, introduction to graph theory, network algorithms, and extremal combinatorics.
18.330 | Introduction to Numerical Analysis (Spring 2012) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-330-introduction-to-numerical-analysis-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Laurent Demanet term:Spring 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), This Course at MIT description:This course analyzed the basic techniques for the efficient numerical solution of problems in science and engineering. Topics spanned root finding, interpolation, approximation of functions, integration, differential equations, direct and iterative methods in linear algebra.
18.330 | Introduction to Numerical Analysis (Spring 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-330-introduction-to-numerical-analysis-spring-2004 | textbook:Burden, Richard L., and J. Douglas Faires. Numerical Analysis. 7th ed. Belmont, CA: Brooks Cole, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:Alar Toomre term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course analyzed the basic techniques for the efficient numerical solution of problems in science and engineering. Topics spanned root finding, interpolation, approximation of functions, integration, differential equations and direct and iterative methods in linear algebra.
18.352J | Theoretical Environmental Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-009j-theoretical-environmental-analysis-spring-2015 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Rothman term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course analyzes cooperative processes that shape the natural environment, now and in the geologic past. It emphasizes the development of theoretical models that relate the physical and biological worlds, the comparison of theory to observational data, and associated mathematical methods.
18.353J | Nonlinear Dynamics I: Chaos | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-353j-nonlinear-dynamics-i-chaos-fall-2012 | textbook:Strogatz, S. Nonlinear Dynamics And Chaos: With Applications To Physics, Biology, Chemistry, And Engineering. Westview Press, 2001. textbook:The following book may also be useful:  Berge, P., Y. Pomeau, and C. Vidal. Order within Chaos. Wiley-VCH, 1987. textbook:Beltrami, E. Mathematics for Dynamic Modeling. Academic Press, 1987. textbook:Gleick, J. Chaos: The Making of a New Science. Viking Adult, 1987. textbook:Guckenheimer, J., and P. Holmes. Nonlinear Oscillations, Dynamical Systems, and Bifur- Cations of Vector Fields. Springer-Verlag, 1983. textbook:Hilborn, Robert C. Chaos and Nonlinear Dynamics: An Introduction for Scientists and Engineers. Oxford University Press, 1994. textbook:Kaplan, D., and L. Glass. Understanding Nonlinear Dynamics. Springer-Verlag, 1995. textbook:Manneville, P. Dissipative Structures and Weak Turbulence. Academic Press, 1990. textbook:Schuster, H. G. Deterministic Chaos: An Introduction. 2nd ed. Vch Publisher, 1988. textbook:Thompson, J. M. T., and H. B. Stewart. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: Geometrical Methods for Engineers and Scientists. John Wiley and Sons, 1986. textbook:Turcotte, D. Fractals and Chaos in Geology and Geophysics. 2nd ed. Cambridge University Press, 1997. level:Undergraduate instructors:Lyubov Chumakova term:Fall 2012 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to nonlinear dynamics and chaos in dissipative systems. The content is structured to be of general interest to undergraduates in engineering and science.
18.361J | Introduction to Modeling and Simulation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-021j-introduction-to-modeling-and-simulation-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Markus Buehler,  Jeffrey Grossman term:Spring 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject provides an introduction to modeling and simulation, covering continuum methods, atomistic and molecular simulation, and quantum mechanics. Hands-on training is provided in the fundamentals and applications of these methods to key engineering problems. The lectures provide exposure to areas of application based on the scientific exploitation of the power of computation. We use web based applets for simulations, thus extensive programming skills are not required.
18.400J | Automata, Computability, and Complexity | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-045j-automata-computability-and-complexity-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Scott Aaronson term:Spring 2011 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides a challenging introduction to some of the central ideas of theoretical computer science. Beginning in antiquity, the course will progress through finite automata, circuits and decision trees, Turing machines and computability, efficient algorithms and reducibility, the P versus NP problem, NP-completeness, the power of randomness, cryptography and one-way functions, computational learning theory, and quantum computing. It examines the classes of problems that can and cannot be solved by various kinds of machines. It tries to explain the key differences between computational models that affect their power.
18.410J | Design and Analysis of Algorithms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-design-and-analysis-of-algorithms-spring-2012 | textbook:Dasgupta, Sanjoy, Christos Papadimitriou, and Umesh Vazirani. Algorithms. McGraw-Hill, 2006. textbook:Kleinberg, Jon, and Eva Tardos. Algorithm Design. Addison-Wesley, 2005. textbook:Bentley, Jon. Programming Pearls. Association for Computing Machinery, 1986. textbook:———. More Programming Pearls: Confessions of a Coder. Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:———. Writing Efficient Programs. Prentice-Hall, 1982. textbook:Skiena, Steven. The Algorithm Design Manual. Springer, 1997. textbook:Gonnet, Gaston. Handbook of Algorithms and Data Structures: Coded in Pascal and C. Addison-Wesley, 1984. textbook:Even, Shimon. Graph Algorithms. Computer Science Press, 1979. textbook:Garey, Michael, and David Johnson. Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness. W. H. Freeman, 1979. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Papadimitriou, Christos, and Kenneth Steiglitz. Combinatorial Optimization: Algorithms and Complexity. Prentice-Hall, 1981. textbook:Feller, William. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications. Wiley, 1968 (Volume 1), 1971 (Volume 2). textbook:Liu, Chung. Introduction to Combinatorial Mathematics. McGraw-Hill College, 1968. textbook:Niven, Ivan, and Herbert Zuckerman. An Introduction to the Theory of Numbers. John Wiley & Sons, 1991. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dana Moshkovitz,  Bruce Tidor term:Spring 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Techniques for the design and analysis of efficient algorithms, emphasizing methods useful in practice. Topics include sorting; search trees, heaps, and hashing; divide-and-conquer; dynamic programming; greedy algorithms; amortized analysis; graph algorithms; and shortest paths. Advanced topics may include network flow, computational geometry, number-theoretic algorithms, polynomial and matrix calculations, caching, and parallel computing.
18.410J | Introduction to Algorithms (SMA 5503) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-introduction-to-algorithms-sma-5503-fall-2005 | textbook:Cormen, Thomas, Charles Leiserson, Ronald Rivest, and Clifford Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 3rd ed. MIT Press, 2009. textbook:Aho, Alfred V., John E. Hopcroft, and Jeffrey D. Ullman. The Design and Analysis of Computer Algorithms. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1974. textbook:———. Data Structures and Algorithms. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1983. textbook:Baase, Sara. Computer Algorithms: Introduction to Design and Analysis. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:Bentley, Jon Louis. Programming Pearls. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1986. textbook:———. More Programming Pearls: Confessions of a Coder. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:———. Writing Efficient Programs. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1982. textbook:Brassard, Gilles, and Paul Bratley. Algorithmics: Theory and Practice. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1988. textbook:Chung, Kai Lai. Elementary Probability Theory with Stochastic Processes. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1974. textbook:Even, Shimon. Graph Algorithms. Rockville, MD: Computer Science Press, 1979. textbook:Feller, William. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications. 3rd ed. 2 vols. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1968, 1971. textbook:Garey, Michael R., and David S. Johnson. Computers and Intractibility: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness. San Francisco, CA: W. H. Freeman & Co., 1979. textbook:Gonnet, Gaston H. Handbook of Algorithms and Data Structures. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1984. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Horowitz, Ellis, and Sartaj Sahni. Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms. Potomac, MD: Computer Science Press, 1978. textbook:Kingston, Jeffrey H. Algorithms and Data Structures: Design, Correctness, Analysis. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Publishing Co., 1991. textbook:Knuth, Donald E. The Art of Computer Programming. 3rd ed. 3 vols. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1997. textbook:Lawler, Eugene L. Combinatorial Optimization: Networks and Matroids. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, 1976. textbook:Liu, Chung L. Introduction to Combinatorial Mathematics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1968. textbook:Manber, Udi. Introduction to Algorithms: A Creative Approach. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1989. textbook:Mehlhorn, Kurt. Data Structures and Algorithms. 3 vols. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1984. textbook:Niven, Ivan, and Herbert S. Zuckerman. An Introduction to the Theory of Numbers. 4th ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1980. textbook:Papadimitriou, Christos H., and Kenneth Steiglitz. Combinatorial Optimization: Algorithms and Complexity. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1982. textbook:Press, William P., Brian P. Flannery, Saul A. Teukolsky, and William T. Vetterling. Numerical Recipies in C: The Art of Scientific Computing. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1988. textbook:Reingold, Edwin M., Jurg Nievergelt, and Narsingh Deo. Combinatorial Algorithms: Theory and Practice. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1977. textbook:Sedgewick, Robert. Algorithms. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1988. textbook:Sipser, Michael. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing Company, 1997. textbook:Tarjan, Robert Endre. Data Structures and Network Algorithms. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1983. level:Undergraduate instructors:Charles Leiserson,  Erik Demaine term:Fall 2005 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course teaches techniques for the design and analysis of efficient algorithms, emphasizing methods useful in practice. Topics covered include: sorting; search trees, heaps, and hashing; divide-and-conquer; dynamic programming; amortized analysis; graph algorithms; shortest paths; network flow; computational geometry; number-theoretic algorithms; polynomial and matrix calculations; caching; and parallel computing.This course was also taught as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) programme as course number SMA 5503 (Analysis and Design of Algorithms).
18.413 | Error-Correcting Codes Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-413-error-correcting-codes-laboratory-spring-2004 | textbook:Fan, John L. Constrained Coding and Soft Iterative Decoding. Kluwer International Series in Engineering and Computer Science. Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001. textbook:Shannon, Claude E., and Warren Weaver. Mathematical Theory of Communication. Urbana, Illinois: University of Illinois Press, 1963. level:Undergraduate instructors:Daniel Spielman term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This course introduces students to iterative decoding algorithms and the codes to which they are applied, including Turbo Codes, Low-Density Parity-Check Codes, and Serially-Concatenated Codes. The course will begin with an introduction to the fundamental problems of Coding Theory and their mathematical formulations. This will be followed by a study of Belief Propagation--the probabilistic heuristic which underlies iterative decoding algorithms. Belief Propagation will then be applied to the decoding of Turbo, LDPC, and Serially-Concatenated codes. The technical portion of the course will conclude with a study of tools for explaining and predicting the behavior of iterative decoding algorithms, including EXIT charts and Density Evolution.
18.433 | Combinatorial Optimization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-433-combinatorial-optimization-fall-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Santosh Vempala term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes description:Combinatorial Optimization provides a thorough treatment of linear programming and combinatorial optimization. Topics include network flow, matching theory, matroid optimization, and approximation algorithms for NP-hard problems.
18.440 | Probability and Random Variables | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-440-probability-and-random-variables-spring-2014 | textbook:Ross, Sheldon. A First Course in Probability. 8th ed. Pearson Prentice Hall, 2009. level:Undergraduate instructors:Scott Sheffield term:Spring 2014 features:Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course introduces students to probability and random variables. Topics include distribution functions, binomial, geometric, hypergeometric, and Poisson distributions. The other topics covered are uniform, exponential, normal, gamma and beta distributions; conditional probability; Bayes theorem; joint distributions; Chebyshev inequality; law of large numbers; and central limit theorem.
18.443 | Statistics for Applications (Spring 2015) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-443-statistics-for-applications-spring-2015 | textbook:All readings are assigned in the required text Rice, John A. Mathematical Statistics and Data Analysis. Duxbury Press, 2006. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Peter Kempthorne term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions description:This course is a broad treatment of statistics, concentrating on specific statistical techniques used in science and industry. Topics include: hypothesis testing and estimation, confidence intervals, chi-square tests, nonparametric statistics, analysis of variance, regression, correlation, decision theory, and Bayesian statistics.
18.443 | Statistics for Applications (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-443-statistics-for-applications-fall-2006 | textbook:All readings refer to  DeGroot, Morris H., and Mark J. Schervish. Probability and Statistics. 3rd ed. Boston, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dmitry Panchenko term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:This course offers a broad treatment of statistics, concentrating on specific statistical techniques used in science and industry. Topics include: hypothesis testing and estimation, confidence intervals, chi-square tests, nonparametric statistics, analysis of variance, regression, and correlation.OCW offers an earlier version of this course, from Fall 2003. This newer version focuses less on estimation theory and more on multiple linear regression models. In addition, a number of Matlab examples are included here.
18.443 | Statistics for Applications (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-443-statistics-for-applications-fall-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dmitry Panchenko term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes description:This course provides a broad treatment of statistics, concentrating on specific statistical techniques used in science and industry. The course topics include hypothesis testing and estimation. It also includes confidence intervals, chi-square tests, nonparametric statistics, analysis of variance, regression, and correlation.
18.700 | Linear Algebra (Fall 2013) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-700-linear-algebra-fall-2013 | textbook:[Axler] =  Axler, Sheldon J. Linear Algebra Done Right. Springer, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Vogan term:Fall 2013 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course offers a rigorous treatment of linear algebra, including vector spaces, systems of linear equations, bases, linear independence, matrices, determinants, eigenvalues, inner products, quadratic forms, and canonical forms of matrices. Compared with 18.06 Linear Algebra, more emphasis is placed on theory and proofs.
18.701 | Algebra I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-701-algebra-i-fall-2010 | textbook:Artin, M. Algebra (2nd Edition). Addison Wesley, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:Michael Artin term:Fall 2010 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This undergraduate level Algebra I course covers groups, vector spaces, linear transformations, symmetry groups, bilinear forms, and linear groups.
18.702 | Algebra II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-702-algebra-ii-spring-2011 | textbook:Artin, M. Algebra (2nd Edition). Addison Wesley, 2010. level:Undergraduate instructors:Michael Artin term:Spring 2011 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This undergraduate level course follows Algebra I. Topics include group representations, rings, ideals, fields, polynomial rings, modules, factorization, integers in quadratic number fields, field extensions, and Galois theory.
18.703 | Modern Algebra | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-703-modern-algebra-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:James McKernan term:Spring 2013 features:This Course at MIT description:This undergraduate course focuses on traditional algebra topics that have found greatest application in science and engineering as well as in mathematics.
18.704 | Seminar in Algebra and Number Theory: Computational Commutative Algebra and Algebraic Geometry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-704-seminar-in-algebra-and-number-theory-computational-commutative-algebra-and-algebraic-geometry-fall-2008 | textbook:Cox, David, John Little, and Donal O'Shea. Ideals, Varieties, and Algorithms. 3rd ed. Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics. New York, NY: Springer, 2007. level:Undergraduate instructors:Steven Kleiman term:Fall 2008 features: description:In this undergraduate level seminar series, topics vary from year to year. Students present and discuss the subject matter, and are provided with instruction and practice in written and oral communication. Some experience with proofs required. The topic for fall 2008: Computational algebra and algebraic geometry.
18.704 | Seminar in Algebra and Number Theory: Rational Points on Elliptic Curves | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-704-seminar-in-algebra-and-number-theory-rational-points-on-elliptic-curves-fall-2004 | textbook:Most of the material for the class will follow the text:  Silverman, Joseph H., and John Tate. Rational Points on Elliptic Curves. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1 August 1992. textbook:The last two lectures are based on the textbook:  Koblitz, Neal. Introduction to Elliptic Curves and Modular Forms. 2nd ed. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1993, level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Daniel Rogalski term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions description:This is a seminar for mathematics majors, where the students present the lectures. No prior experience giving lectures is necessary.
18.712 | Introduction to Representation Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-712-introduction-to-representation-theory-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Pavel Etingof term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes description:The goal of this course is to give an undergraduate-level introduction to representation theory (of groups, Lie algebras, and associative algebras). Representation theory is an area of mathematics which, roughly speaking, studies symmetry in linear spaces.
18.781 | Theory of Numbers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-781-theory-of-numbers-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Abhinav Kumar term:Spring 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is an elementary  introduction to number theory with no algebraic prerequisites. Topics covered include primes, congruences, quadratic reciprocity, diophantine equations, irrational numbers, continued fractions, and partitions.&nbsp; &nbsp;
18.782 | Introduction to Arithmetic Geometry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-782-introduction-to-arithmetic-geometry-fall-2013 | textbook:Gathen, Joachim von zur, and Jürgen Garhard. Modern Computer Algebra. 3rd ed. Cambridge University Press, 2013. textbook:Artin, M. Algebra. 2nd ed. Pearson Education, 2010. textbook:Knapp, A. Basic Algebra. Birkhäuser, 2006. textbook:———. Advanced Algebra. Birkhäuser, 2007. textbook:Atiyah, M. F., and I. G. Mac Donald. Introduction to Commutative Algebara. Westview Press, 1994. textbook:Bump, D. Algebraic Geometry. World Scientic Publishing Company, 1998. textbook:van der Waerdan, B. L. Algebra Volume I. 7th ed. Springer, 1990. textbook:Shafarevich, I. R., and Miles Reid. Basic Algebraic Geometry I. 3rd ed. Springer-Verlag, 2013. textbook:Stichtenoth, H. Algebraic Function Fields and Codes. Springer, 2008. textbook:Stichtenoth, H. Algebraic Function Fields and Codes. Springer, 2008. textbook:Shafarevich, I. R., and Miles Reid. Basic Algebraic Geometry I. 3rd ed. Springer-Verlag, 2013. textbook:Silverman, Joseph H. The Arithmetic of Elliptic Curves. 2nd ed. Springer-Verlag, 2009. textbook:Serre, J. P. Lectures on the Mordell-Weil Theorem. 3rd ed. Teubner Verlag, 1997. textbook:Silverman, Joseph H. The Arithmetic of Elliptic Curves. 2nd ed. Springer-Verlag, 2009. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Andrew Sutherland term:Fall 2013 features:Online textbooks, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to arithmetic geometry, a subject that lies at the intersection of algebraic geometry and number theory. Its primary motivation is the study of classical Diophantine problems from the modern perspective of algebraic geometry.
18.821 | Project Laboratory in Mathematics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-821-project-laboratory-in-mathematics-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Haynes Miller, Dr. Nat Stapleton,  Saul Glasman,  Susan Ruff term:Spring 2013 features:Selected video lectures, Special feature - video, Projects and examples, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:Project Laboratory in Mathematics is a course designed to give students a sense of what it's like to do mathematical research. In teams, students explore puzzling and complex mathematical situations, search for regularities, and attempt to explain them mathematically. Students share their results through professional-style papers and presentations.This course site was created specifically for educators interested in offering students a taste of mathematical research. This site features extensive description and commentary from the instructors about why the course was created and how it operates.
18.901 | Introduction to Topology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-901-introduction-to-topology-fall-2004 | textbook:The readings are in the textbook:  Munkres, James. Topology. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 28 December 1999. level:Undergraduate instructors:James Munkres term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course introduces topology, covering topics fundamental to modern analysis and geometry. It also deals with subjects like topological spaces and continuous functions, connectedness, compactness, separation axioms, and selected further topics such as function spaces, metrization theorems, embedding theorems and the fundamental group.
18.904 | Seminar in Topology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-904-seminar-in-topology-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Andrew Snowden term:Spring 2011 features:Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course is a seminar in topology. The main mathematical goal is to learn about the fundamental group, homology and cohomology. The main non-mathematical goal is to obtain experience giving math talks.
18.950 | Differential Geometry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-950-differential-geometry-fall-2008 | textbook:Kuhnel, Wolfgang. Differential Geometry: Curves – Surfaces – Manifolds. Student mathematical library, vol. 16. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 2002. textbook:Spivak, Michael. A Comprehensive Introduction to Differential Geometry. Vol. 2. Boston, MA: Publish or Perish, 1999. textbook:do Carmo, Manfredo Perdigañ. Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1976. textbook:Pressley, Andrew. Elementary Differential Geometry. Springer undergraduate mathematics series. London, UK: Springer, 2002. textbook:Gray, Alfred, Simon Salamon, and Elsa Abbena. Modern Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces with Mathematica. Boca Raton, FL: Chapman & Hall/CRC, 2006. level:Undergraduate instructors:Paul Seidel term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to differential geometry. The course itself is mathematically rigorous, but still emphasizes concrete aspects of geometry, centered on the notion of curvature.
18.994 | Seminar in Geometry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-994-seminar-in-geometry-fall-2004 | textbook:Osserman, Robert. A Survey of Minimal Surfaces. Dover Phoenix Editions. New York: Dover Publications, May 1, 2002. textbook:Do Carmo, Manfredo. Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces. Englewood Cliffs, N. J.: Prentice Hall, February 1, 1976. textbook:Spivak, Michael. Calculus on Manifolds: A Modern Approach to Classical Theorems of Advanced Calculus. New York: Westview Press, June 1, 1965. textbook:Spivak, Michael. A Comprehensive Introduction to Differential Geometry. Vol 3. 3rd ed. Boston: Publish or Perish, January 1, 1999. textbook:Spivak, Michael. A Comprehensive Introduction to Differential Geometry. Vol 4. 3rd ed. Berkeley: Publish or Perish, January 1, 1999. textbook:Ahlfors, Lars. Complex Analysis. 3rd ed. New York: McGraw-Hill Science/Engineering/Math, January 1, 1979. textbook:Ahlfors, L. V., and L. Sario. Riemann Surfaces. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1960. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Emma Carberry term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:In this course, students take turns in giving lectures. For the most part, the lectures are based on Robert Osserman's classic book A Survey of Minimal Surfaces, Dover Phoenix Editions. New York: Dover Publications, May 1, 2002. ISBN: 0486495140.
18.S096 | Topics in Mathematics with Applications in Finance | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-s096-topics-in-mathematics-with-applications-in-finance-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Peter Kempthorne, Dr. Choongbum Lee, Dr. Vasily Strela, Dr. Jake Xia term:Fall 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:The purpose of the class is to expose undergraduate and graduate students to the mathematical concepts and techniques used in the financial industry. Mathematics lectures are mixed with lectures illustrating the corresponding application in the financial industry. MIT mathematicians  teach the mathematics part while industry professionals give the lectures on applications in finance.
18.S34 | Problem Solving Seminar | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-s34-problem-solving-seminar-fall-2007 | textbook:Alexanderson, Gerald L., Leonard F. Klosinski, and Loren C. Larson. The William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition Problems and Solutions, 1965-1984. Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1985. textbook:Barbeau, Edward, Murray S. Klamkin, and W. O. J. Moser. Five Hundred Mathematical Challenges. Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1997. textbook:Gilbert, George Thomas, Mark Krusemeyer, and Loren C. Larson. Mathematical Plums. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 14.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1979. textbook:Gleason, Andrew M., R. E. Greenwood, and L. M. Kelly. The William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition Problems and Solutions 1938-1964. Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1980. textbook:Greitzer, Samuel L. International Mathematical Olympiads, 1959-1977. (New Mathematical Library, no. 27.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1979. textbook:Halmos, Paul R. Problems for Mathematicians, Young and Old. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 12.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1991. textbook:Honsberger, Ross. Mathematical Morsels. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 3.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1979. textbook:———. More Mathematical Morsels. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 10.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1996. textbook:———. Mathematical Gems I. (The Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 1.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1974. textbook:———. Mathematical Gems II. (The Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 2.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1976. textbook:———. Mathematical Gems III. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 9.) Washington, DC: Published and distributed by the Mathematical Association of America, 1997. textbook:———. From Erdös to Kiev Problems of Olympiad Caliber. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 17.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1997. textbook:Kedlaya, Kiran Sridhara, Bjorn Poonen, and Ravi Vakil. The William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition 1985-2000 Problems, Solutions, and Commentary. MAA problem books series. Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 2002. textbook:Klambauer, Gabriel. Problems and Propositions in Analysis. (Lecture Notes in Pure and Applied Mathematics, no. 49.) New York, NY: CRC, 1979. textbook:Klamkin, Murray S. USA Mathematical Olympiads, 1972-1985. (New Mathematical Library, no. 33.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1989. textbook:———. International Mathematical Olympiads, 1978-1985 and Forty Supplementary Problems. (New Mathematical Library, no. 31.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1986. textbook:Klee, Victor, and S. Wagon. Old and New Unsolved Problems in Plane Geometry and Number Theory. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 11.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1996. textbook:Konhauser, Joseph D. E., Daniel J. Velleman, and S. Wagon. Which Way Did the Bicycle Go? And Other Intriguing Mathematical Mysteries. (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions, no. 18.) Washington, DC: Mathematical Association of America, 1996. textbook:Larson, Loren C. Problem-Solving Through Problems. Problem books in mathematics. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1983. textbook:Newman, Donald J. A Problem Seminar. Problem books in mathematics. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1982. textbook:Pólya, George, and Gábor Szegö. Problems and Theorems in Analysis. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Pólya, George. Problems and Theorems in Analysis 2. Theory of Functions, Zeros, Polynomials, Determinants, Number Theory, Geometry. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Rabinowitz, Stanley. Index to Mathematical Problems, 1980-1984. (Indexes to mathematical problems, v. 1.) Westford, MA: MathPro Press, 1992. textbook:Vakil, Ravi. A Mathematical Mosaic Patterns & Problem Solving. Burlington, Ontario: Brendan Kelly Pub, 1997. textbook:Winkler, P. Mathematical Puzzles A Connoisseur's Collection. Natick, Mass: AK Peters, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Hartley Rogers,  Kiran Kedlaya,  Richard Stanley term:Fall 2007 features:Assignments and solutions description:This course, which is geared toward Freshmen, is an undergraduate seminar on mathematical problem solving. It is intended for students who enjoy solving challenging mathematical problems and who are interested in learning various techniques and background information useful for problem solving. Students in this course are expected to compete in a nationwide mathematics contest for undergraduates.
18.S66 | The Art of Counting | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-s66-the-art-of-counting-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Richard Stanley term:Spring 2003 features: description:The subject of enumerative combinatorics deals with counting the number of elements of a finite set. For instance, the number of ways to write a positive integer n as a sum of positive integers, taking order into account, is 2n-1. We will be concerned primarily with bijective proofs, i.e., showing that two sets have the same number of elements by exhibiting a bijection (one-to-one correspondence) between them. This is a subject which requires little mathematical background to reach the frontiers of current research. Students will therefore have the opportunity to do original research. It might be necessary to limit enrollment.
18.S997 | Introduction To MATLAB Programming | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-s997-introduction-to-matlab-programming-fall-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Yossi Farjoun term:Fall 2011 features:Video lectures, Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is intended to assist undergraduates with learning the basics of programming in general and programming MATLAB&reg; in particular.
18.075 | Advanced Calculus for Engineers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-075-advanced-calculus-for-engineers-fall-2004 | textbook:These chapters come from the text:  Hildebrand, Francis. Advanced Calculus for Applications. 2nd ed. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice Hall, March 31, 1976. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Dionisios Margetis,  John W. M. Bush term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course analyzes the functions of a complex variable and the calculus of residues. It also covers subjects such as ordinary differential equations, partial differential equations, Bessel and Legendre functions, and the Sturm-Liouville theory.
18.085 | Computational Science and Engineering I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-085-computational-science-and-engineering-i-fall-2008 | textbook:Strang, Gilbert. Computational Science and Engineering. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2007. level:Graduate instructors:Gilbert Strang term:Fall 2008 features:Video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course provides a review of linear algebra, including applications to networks, structures, and estimation, Lagrange multipliers. Also covered are: differential equations of equilibrium; Laplace's equation and potential flow; boundary-value problems; minimum principles and calculus of variations; Fourier series; discrete Fourier transform; convolution; and applications. Note: This course was previously called &quot;Mathematical Methods for Engineers I.&quot;
18.086 | Mathematical Methods for Engineers II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-086-mathematical-methods-for-engineers-ii-spring-2006 | textbook:Strang, Gilbert. Introduction to Applied Mathematics. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 1986. textbook:———. Computational Science and Engineering. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2007. level:Graduate instructors:Gilbert Strang term:Spring 2006 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Projects and examples description:This graduate-level course is a continuation of Mathematical Methods for Engineers I (18.085). Topics include numerical methods; initial-value problems; network flows; and optimization.
18.094J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Fall 2012) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-fall-2012 | textbook:[WM] =  McKeachie, W. J., et al. Teaching Tips: Strategies, Research, and Theory for College and University Teachers. 9th ed. D.C. Health & Co., 1994. textbook:[PW/FO] =  Wankat, P. C., and F. S. Oreovicz. Teaching Engineering. McGraw-Hill, 1992. textbook:[BGD] =  Davis, B. Gross. Tools for Teaching. Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1993. textbook:Bok, Derek. "The Evolution of American Colleges," and "Purposes." In Our Underachieving Colleges: A Candid Look at How Much Students Learn and Why they Should be Learning More. Princeton University Press, 2005, pp. 11–30. textbook:Hooks, Bell. Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of Freedom. Routledge Press, 1994, pp. 1–12. textbook:Seymour, E., and N. M. Hewitt. Talking about Leaving: Why Undergraduates Leave the Sciences. Westview Press, 2000, pp. 13–9, 33, 145–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "Week 7-Students as Learners." In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semeseter of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008, pp. 153–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "The Syllabus." Chapter 0 in On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Lang, J. M. "In the Classroom: Lectures." Chapter 3 In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Tauber, R.T., and C. Sargent Mester. Acting Lessons for Teachers: Using Performance Skills in the Classroom. Praeger, 2006. textbook:Halpern, B. L., and K. Lubar. Leadership Presence: Dramatic Techniques to Reach Out, Motivate and Inspire. Gotham, 2003. textbook:Alfeld, Peter. How to Solve It: A New Aspect of Mathematical Method. Summary of G. Polya. 2nd ed. Department of Mathematics, University of Utah. Princeton University Press, 1973. textbook:Barad, Karen. "A Feminist Approach to Teaching Quantum Physics." Chapter 2 in Teaching the Majority: Breaking the Gender Barrier in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering. Edited by S. Rosser. Teachers College Press, 1995, pp. 43–75. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Janet Rankin term:Fall 2012 features:This Course at MIT description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Topics include theories of adult learning; course development; promoting active learning, problem-solving, and critical thinking in students; communicating with a diverse student body; using educational technology to further learning; lecturing; creating effective tests and assignments; and assessment and evaluation. Students research and present a relevant topic of particular interest. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
18.094J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
18.117 | Topics in Several Complex Variables | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-117-topics-in-several-complex-variables-spring-2005 | textbook:Hormander, L. An Introduction to Complex Analysis in Several Variables. 2nd revised ed. Vol. 7, North-Holland Mathematical Library. Amsterdam-London: North-Holland Publishing Co. ; New York, NY: American Elsevier Publishing Co., Inc., 1973. textbook:Griffiths, P., and J. Harris. Principles of Algebraic Geometry. New York, NY: John Wiley and Sons, 1978. level:Graduate instructors:Victor Guillemin term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course covers harmonic theory on complex manifolds, the Hodge decomposition theorem, the Hard Lefschetz theorem, and Vanishing theorems. Some results and tools on deformation and uniformization of complex manifolds are also discussed.
18.125 | Measure and Integration | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-125-measure-and-integration-fall-2003 | textbook:Rudin, Walter. Real and Complex Analysis. McGraw-Hill International Editions: Mathematics Series. McGraw-Hill Education - Europe, 1986. textbook:Jones, Frank. Lebesgue Integration on Euclidean Space. Boston: Jones & Bartlett Publishers, February 1, 1993.    Evans, Lawrence C., and Ronald F. Gariepy. Measure Theory and Fine Properties of Function. Boca Raton, Florida: CRC Press, December 18, 1991. level:Graduate instructors:Jeff Viaclovsky term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes description:This graduate-level course covers Lebesgue's integration theory with applications to analysis, including an introduction to convolution and the Fourier transform.
18.155 | Differential Analysis (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-155-differential-analysis-fall-2004 | textbook:Rudin, W. Real and Complex Analysis. 3rd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1987. level:Graduate instructors:Richard Melrose term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This is the first semester of a two-semester sequence on Differential Analysis. Topics include fundamental solutions for elliptic; hyperbolic and parabolic differential operators; method of characteristics; review of Lebesgue integration; distributions; fourier transform; homogeneous distributions; asymptotic methods.
18.156 | Differential Analysis (Spring 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-156-differential-analysis-spring-2004 | textbook:Jost, Jurgen. Partial Differential Equations. New York: Springer-Verlag, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Jeff Viaclovsky term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:The main goal of this course is to give the students a solid foundation in the theory of elliptic and parabolic linear partial differential equations.&nbsp;It is the second semester of a two-semester, graduate-level sequence on Differential Analysis.
18.175 | Theory of Probability | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-175-theory-of-probability-spring-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Scott Sheffield term:Spring 2014 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers topics such as sums of independent random variables, central limit phenomena, infinitely divisible laws, Levy processes, Brownian motion, conditioning, and martingales.
18.305 | Advanced Analytic Methods in Science and Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-305-advanced-analytic-methods-in-science-and-engineering-fall-2004 | textbook:Cheng, Hung. Advanced Analytic Methods in Continuum Mathematics: Fundamentals for Science and Engineering. Boston, MA: Luban Press, 2004. textbook:Bender, C., and S. Orszag. Advanced Mathematical Methods for Scientists and Engineers. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1978. Reprinted by Springer-Verlag, New York, 1998. textbook:Mei, C. C. Mathematical Analysis in Engineering. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Hung Cheng term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:Advanced Analytic Methods in Science and Engineering is a comprehensive treatment of the advanced methods of applied mathematics. It was designed to strengthen the mathematical abilities of graduate students and train them to think on their own.
18.306 | Advanced Partial Differential Equations with Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-306-advanced-partial-differential-equations-with-applications-fall-2009 | textbook:Whitham, G. B. Linear and Nonlinear Waves. New York, NY: Wiley, 1999. textbook:Kevorkian, J. Partial Differential Equations: Analytical Solution Techniques. Texts in Applied Mathematics, vol. 35. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 2000. textbook:Hinch, E. J. Perturbation Methods. Cambridge Texts in Applied Mathematics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1991. textbook:Guenther, Ronald B., and John W. Lee. Partial Differential Equations of Mathematical Physics and Integral Equations. New York, NY: Dover Publications, 1996. textbook:Debnath, Lokenath. Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers. Boston, MA: Birkhäuser, 1997. textbook:Carrier, George F., and Carl E. Pearson. Partial Differential Equations: Theory and Technique. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Academic Press, 1988. textbook:Barenblatt, G. I. Scaling, Self-Similarity, and Intermediate Asymptotics. Cambridge Texts in Applied Mathematics, vol. 14. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Levine, Harold. Partial Differential Equations. AMS/IP Studies in Advanced Mathematics, vol. 6. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 1997. textbook:Drazin, P. G., and R. S. Johnson. Solitons: An Introduction. Cambridge Texts in Applied Mathematics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1989. textbook:Evans, Lawrence C. Partial Differential Equations. Graduate Studies in Mathematics, vol. 19. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 1998. textbook:DiBenedetto, Emmanuele. Partial Differential Equations. Boston, MA: Birkhäuser, 1995. textbook:Garabedian, Paul. Partial Differential Equations. Providence, RI: AMS Chelsea, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Rodolfo Rosales term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The focus of the course is the concepts and techniques for solving the partial differential equations (PDE) that permeate various scientific disciplines. The emphasis is on nonlinear PDE. Applications include problems from fluid dynamics, electrical and mechanical engineering, materials science, quantum mechanics, etc.
18.307 | Integral Equations | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-307-integral-equations-spring-2006 | textbook:Masujima, M. Applied Mathematical Methods of Theoretical Physics - Integral Equations and Calculus of Variations. Weinheim, Germany: Wiley-VCH, 2005. textbook:Stakgold, I. Green's Functions and Boundary-value Problems. New York, NY: Wiley, 1998. textbook:Kanwal, R. P. Linear Integral Equations: Theory and Technique. Boston, MA: Birkhauser, 1996. textbook:Drazin, P. G., and R. S. Johnson. Solitons: An Introduction. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1989. textbook:Jereys, H., and B. S. Jereys. Methods of Mathematical Physics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Courant, R., and D. Hilbert. Methods of Mathematical Physics. Vol. I. New York, NY: Wiley, 1989. textbook:Tricomi, F. G. Integral Equations. New York, NY: Dover, 1985. textbook:Pipkin, A. C. A Course on Integral Equations. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1991. textbook:Hochstadt, H. Integral Equations. New York, NY: Wiley, 1973. textbook:Weinstein, A., and W. Stenger. Methods of Intermediate Problems for Eigenvalues. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1972. textbook:Dunford, N., and J. T. Schwartz. Linear Operators. Vols. I-III. New York, NY: Wiley, 1988. textbook:Carrier, G. F., M. Krook, and C. E. Pearson. Functions of a Complex Variable: Theory and Technique. Ithica, NY: Hod Books, 1983. textbook:Whittaker, E. T., and G. N. Watson. A Course of Modern Analysis. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:———. Introduction to the Theory of Fourier Integrals. New York, NY: Chelsea Pub. Co., 1986. textbook:Noble, B. Methods based on the Wiener-Hopf Technique for the Solution of Partial Differential Equations. New York, NY: Chelsea Publishing Company, 1988. textbook:McCoy, B., and T. T. Wu. The Two-dimensional Ising Model. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1973. textbook:Carrier, G. F., M. Krook, and C. E. Pearson. Functions of a Complex Variable: Theory and Technique. Ithica, NY: Hod Books, 1983, chapter 8. textbook:Muskhelishvili, N. I. Singular Integral Equations. New York, NY: Dover, 1992. textbook:Gakhov, F. D. Boundary-value Problems. New York, NY: Dover, 1990. textbook:Lu, J.-L. Boundary-value Problems for Analytic Functions. River Edge, NJ: World Scientific, 1993. textbook:Broberg, K. B. Cracks and Fracture. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1999. textbook:Freund, L. B. Dynamic Fracture Mechanics. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1990. textbook:Hirth, J. P., and J. Lothe. Theory of Dislocations. New York, NY: Wiley, 1982, esp. chapter 8. textbook:Tyras, G. Radiation and Propagation of Electromagnetic Waves. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1969. textbook:Collin, R. E. Field Theory of Guided Waves. New York, NY: Wiley-IEEE Press, 1990. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Dionisios Margetis term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course emphasizes concepts and techniques for solving integral equations from an applied mathematics perspective. Material is selected from the following topics: Volterra and Fredholm equations, Fredholm theory, the Hilbert-Schmidt theorem; Wiener-Hopf Method; Wiener-Hopf Method and partial differential equations; the Hilbert Problem and singular integral equations of Cauchy type; inverse scattering transform; and group theory. Examples are taken from fluid and solid mechanics, acoustics, quantum mechanics, and other applications.
18.315 | Combinatorial Theory: Introduction to Graph Theory, Extremal and Enumerative Combinatorics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-315-combinatorial-theory-introduction-to-graph-theory-extremal-and-enumerative-combinatorics-spring-2005 | textbook:Stanley, R. P. Enumerative Combinatorics. Vol. I and II. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1999. textbook:Bollobás, B. Modern Graph Theory (Graduate Texts in Mathematics). New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1998. textbook:———. Extremal Graph Theory. New York, NY: Dover, 2004. textbook:Jukna, S. Extremal Combinatorics. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2000. textbook:Diestel, R. Graph Theory (Graduate Texts in Mathematics). New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1997. textbook:Matousek, J. Lectures on Discrete Geometry (Graduate Texts in Mathematics). New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Igor Pak term:Spring 2005 features: description:This course serves as an introduction to major topics of modern enumerative and algebraic combinatorics with emphasis on partition identities, young tableaux bijections, spanning trees in graphs, and random generation of combinatorial objects. There is some discussion of various applications and connections to other fields.
18.315 | Combinatorial Theory: Hyperplane Arrangements | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-315-combinatorial-theory-hyperplane-arrangements-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Richard Stanley term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This is a graduate-level course in combinatorial theory.&nbsp;The content varies year to year, according to the interests of the instructor and the students.&nbsp;The topic of this course is hyperplane arrangements, including background material from the theory of posets and matroids.
18.318 | Topics in Algebraic Combinatorics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-318-topics-in-algebraic-combinatorics-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Richard Stanley term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:The course consists of a sampling of topics from algebraic combinatorics. The topics include the matrix-tree theorem and other applications of linear algebra, applications of commutative and exterior algebra to counting faces of simplicial complexes, and applications of algebra to tilings.
18.319 | Geometric Combinatorics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-319-geometric-combinatorics-fall-2005 | textbook:Goodman, E., János Pach, and E. Welzl, eds. Combinatorial and Computational Geometry. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Csaba Toth term:Fall 2005 features: description:This course offers an introduction to discrete and computational geometry. Emphasis is placed on teaching methods in combinatorial geometry. Many results presented are recent, and include open (as yet unsolved) problems.
18.325 | Topics in Applied Mathematics: Waves and Imaging | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-325-topics-in-applied-mathematics-waves-and-imaging-fall-2012 | textbook:For Acoustics, see the book:  Kinsler, Lawrence E. Fundamentals of Acoustics. Wiley, 1999. textbook:For Continuum Mechanics, a decent book is:  Spencer, A. J. M. Continuum Mechanics. Dover Publications, 2004. textbook:For Optics, the best book is:  Born, Max, and Emil Wolf. Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. Cambridge University Press, 1999. textbook:For Radar Imaging, see the review article "A Mathematical Tutorial on Synthetic Aperture Radar" (PDF) by Margaret Cheney as well as her book:  Cheney, Margaret, and Brett Borden. Fundamentals of Radar Imaging. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2009. textbook:For Computerized Tomography, see the book:  Natterer, F., and Frank Wübbeling. Mathematical Methods in Image Reconstruction. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2001. textbook:For the introductory treatment of Wave Equations, I've used:  Evans, Lawrence C. Partial Differential Equations. American Mathematical Society, 2010. textbook:Folland, Gerald B. Introduction to Partial Differential Equations. Princeton University Press, 1975. textbook:John, Fritz. Partial Differential Equations. Springer, 2013. textbook:Whitham, Gerald Beresford. Linear and Nonlinear Waves. Wiley-Interscience, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Laurent Demanet term:Fall 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This class covers the mathematics of inverse problems involving waves, with examples taken from reflection seismology, synthetic aperture radar, and computerized tomography.
18.327 | Wavelets, Filter Banks and Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-327-wavelets-filter-banks-and-applications-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Gilbert Strang,  Kevin Amaratunga term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:Wavelets are localized basis functions, good for representing short-time events. The coefficients at each scale are filtered and subsampled to give coefficients at the next scale. This is Mallat's pyramid algorithm for multiresolution, connecting wavelets to filter banks. Wavelets and multiscale algorithms for compression and signal/image processing are developed. Subject is project-based for engineering and scientific applications.
18.335J | Introduction to Numerical Methods (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-335j-introduction-to-numerical-methods-fall-2010 | textbook:[NLA]=  Trefethen, Lloyd N., and David Bau III. Numerical Linear Algebra. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1997. textbook:[Linear] =  Barrett, et al. Templates for the Solution of Linear Systems: Building Blocks for Iterative Methods. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1993. textbook:[Algebraic]=   Bai, et al. Templates for the Solution of Algebraic Eigenvalue Problems: A Practical Guide. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2000. textbook:Further reading: If you need to review linear algebra, review chapters 1-3. If you don't have the linear algebra prerequisite review chapters 1-6 of Strang, Gilbert. Introduction to Linear Algebra, 4th Edition. Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2009. textbook:Conn, Andrew R., Katya Scheinberg, and Luis N. Vicente.  Introduction to Derivative-Free Optimization. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2009. level:Graduate instructors:Steven G. Johnson term:Fall 2010 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course offers an advanced introduction to numerical linear algebra. Topics include direct and iterative methods for linear systems, eigenvalue decompositions and QR/SVD factorizations, stability and accuracy of numerical algorithms, the IEEE floating point standard, sparse and structured matrices, preconditioning, linear algebra software. Problem sets require some knowledge of MATLAB&reg;.
18.335J | Introduction to Numerical Methods (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-335j-introduction-to-numerical-methods-fall-2004 | textbook:Trefethen, Lloyd N., and David Bau. Numerical Linear Algebra. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, May 1, 1997. textbook:Demmel, James W. Applied Numerical Linear Algebra. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, September 1, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Plamen Koev term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:The focus of this course is on numerical linear algebra and numerical methods for solving ordinary differential equations. Topics include linear systems of equations, least square problems, eigenvalue problems, and singular value problems.
18.336 | Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-336-numerical-methods-for-partial-differential-equations-spring-2009 | textbook:[Evans] =  Evans, Lawrence C. Partial Differential Equations. Vol. 19. Graduate studies in mathematics. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 1998. textbook:[Strang] =  Strang, Gilbert. Computational Science and Engineering. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 2007. textbook:[LeVeque2007] =  LeVeque, Randall J. Finite Difference Methods for Ordinary and Partial Differential Equations: Steady-State and Time-Dependent Problems. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2007. textbook:[Trefethen] =  Trefethen, Lloyd N. Spectral Methods in MATLAB (Software, Environments, Tools). Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2001. textbook:[LeVeque2002] =  LeVeque, Randall J. Finite Volume Methods for Hyperbolic Problems. Cambridge texts in applied mathematics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:[Fletcher] =  Fletcher, C. A. J. Computational Techniques for Fluid Dynamics. Fundamental and General Techniques Volume I. Springer series in computational physics. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1996. textbook:[Canuto] =  Canuto, Claudio S., M. Y. Hussaini, A. Quarteroni, and T. A. Zang. Spectral Methods Evolution to Complex Geometries and Applications to Fluid Dynamics. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2007. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Benjamin Seibold term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:This graduate-level course is an advanced introduction to applications and theory of numerical methods for solution of differential equations. In particular, the course focuses on physically-arising partial differential equations, with emphasis on the fundamental ideas underlying various methods.
18.337J | Parallel Computing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-337j-parallel-computing-fall-2011 | level:Graduate instructors:Alan Edelman term:Fall 2011 features:Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:This is an advanced interdisciplinary introduction to applied parallel computing on modern supercomputers. It has a hands-on emphasis on understanding the realities and myths of what is possible on the world's fastest machines. We will make prominent use of the Julia Language, a free, open-source, high-performance dynamic programming language for technical computing.
18.338J | Infinite Random Matrix Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-338j-infinite-random-matrix-theory-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Moe Win,  Alan Edelman term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course on the mathematics of infinite random matrices, students will learn about the tools such as the Stieltjes transform and Free Probability used to characterize infinite random matrices.
18.354J | Nonlinear Dynamics II: Continuum Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-354j-nonlinear-dynamics-ii-continuum-systems-spring-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Jörn Dunkel term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces the basic ideas for understanding the dynamics of continuum systems, by studying specific examples from a range of different fields. Our goal will be to explain the general principles, and also to illustrate them via important physical effects. A parallel goal of this course is to give you an introduction to mathematical modeling.
18.357 | Interfacial Phenomena | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-357-interfacial-phenomena-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:John W. M. Bush term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes description:This graduate-level course covers fluid systems dominated by the influence of interfacial tension.  The roles of curvature pressure and Marangoni stress are elucidated in a variety of fluid systems. Particular attention is given to drops and bubbles, soap films and minimal surfaces, wetting phenomena, water-repellency, surfactants, Marangoni flows, capillary origami and contact line dynamics.
18.366 | Random Walks and Diffusion | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-366-random-walks-and-diffusion-fall-2006 | textbook:Hughes, B. Random Walks and Random Environments. Vol. 1. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press, 1996. textbook:Redner, S. A Guide to First Passage Processes. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001. textbook:Risken, H. The Fokker-Planck Equation. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1989. textbook:Bouchaud, J. P., and M. Potters. Theory of Financial Risks. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Crank, J. Mathematics of Diffusion. 2nd ed. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press, 1975. textbook:Rudnick, J., and G. Gaspari. Elements of the Random Walk. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Spitzer, F. Principles of the Random Walk. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Martin Bazant term:Fall 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This graduate-level subject explores various mathematical aspects of (discrete) random walks and (continuum) diffusion. Applications include polymers, disordered media, turbulence, diffusion-limited aggregation, granular flow, and derivative securities.
18.369 | Mathematical Methods in Nanophotonics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-369-mathematical-methods-in-nanophotonics-spring-2008 | textbook:Readings listed below from 'Textbook' are from the required course text:  Joannopoulos, John D., Steven G. Johnson, Robert D. Meade, and Joshua N. Winn. Photonic Crystals: Molding the Flow of Light. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2008. textbook:For a more sophisticated treatment of Hilbert spaces, adjoints, and other topics in functional analysis, a good text is:  Goldberg, Israel, Seymour Goldberg, and Marinus Kaashoek. Basic Classes of Linear Operators. Boston, MA: Birkhauser Verlag, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Steven G. Johnson term:Spring 2008 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Find out what solid-state physics has brought to Electromagnetism in the last 20 years. This course surveys the physics and mathematics of nanophotonics&mdash;electromagnetic waves in media structured on the scale of the wavelength.Topics include computational methods combined with high-level algebraic techniques borrowed from solid-state quantum mechanics: linear algebra and eigensystems, group theory, Bloch's theorem and conservation laws, perturbation methods, and coupled-mode theories, to understand surprising optical phenomena from band gaps to slow light to nonlinear filters.Note: An earlier version of this course was published on OCW as 18.325 Topics in Applied Mathematics: Mathematical Methods in Nanophotonics, Fall 2005.
18.376J | Wave Propagation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-062j-wave-propagation-fall-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Chiang Mei,  Rodolfo Rosales,  Triantaphyllos Akylas term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Images on Flickr description:This course discusses the Linearized theory of wave phenomena in applied mechanics. Examples are chosen from elasticity, acoustics, geophysics, hydrodynamics and other subjects. The topics include: basic concepts, one dimensional examples, characteristics, dispersion and group velocity, scattering, transmission and reflection, two dimensional reflection and refraction across an interface, mode conversion in elastic waves, diffraction and parabolic approximation, radiation from a line source, surface Rayleigh waves and Love waves in elastic media, waves on the sea surface and internal waves in a stratified fluid, waves in moving media, ship wave pattern, atmospheric lee waves behind an obstacle, and waves through a laminated media.
18.377J | Nonlinear Dynamics and Waves | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-034j-nonlinear-dynamics-and-waves-spring-2007 | textbook:Minorsky, Nicholas. Nonlinear Oscillations. Melbourne, FL: Krieger Publishing, 1974. textbook:Nayfeh, Ali Hasan, and Dean T. Mook. Nonlinear Oscillations. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1995. textbook:Stoker, J. J. Nonlinear Vibrations in Mechanical and Electrical Systems. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1992. textbook:Den Hartog, J. P. Mechanical Vibrations. Mineola, NY: Dover Publications, 1985. textbook:Andronov, A. A., A. A. Vitt, and S. E. Khaikin. Theory of Oscillators. Mineola, NY: Dover Publications, 1987. textbook:Hayashi, Chihiro. Nonlinear Oscillations in Physical Systems. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1986. textbook:Pippard, A. B. Response and Stability: An Introduction to the Physical Theory. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1985. textbook:Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry and Engineering. New York, NY: Perseus Books, 2001. textbook:Iooss, Gerard, and Daniel D. Joseph. Elementary Stability and Bifurcation Theory. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Whitham, G. B. Linear and Nonlinear Waves. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2006. textbook:Craik, Alex D. D. Wave Interactions and Fluid Flows. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1999. textbook:Drazin, P. G. Nonlinear Systems. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Newell, Alan C. Solitons in Mathematics and Physics. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1987. textbook:Dauxois, Thierry, and Michel Peyrard. Physics of Solitons. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Triantaphyllos Akylas term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This graduate-level course provides a unified treatment of nonlinear oscillations and wave phenomena with applications to mechanical, optical, geophysical, fluid, electrical and flow-structure interaction problems.
18.385J | Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-385j-nonlinear-dynamics-and-chaos-fall-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Rodolfo Rosales term:Fall 2014 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This graduate level course focuses on nonlinear dynamics with applications. It takes an intuitive approach with emphasis on geometric thinking, computational and analytical methods and makes extensive use of demonstration software.
18.385J | Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-385j-nonlinear-dynamics-and-chaos-fall-2004 | textbook:Strogatz, S. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1994. textbook:Drazin, P. G. Nonlinear systems. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Peitgen, H-O., H. Jurgens, and D. Saupe. Chaos and Fractals: New Frontiers of Science. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Parker, T. S., and L. O. Chua. Practical Numerical Algorithms for Chaotic Systems. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, December 20, 1991. textbook:Jordan, D. W., and P. Smith. Nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equations. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Berge, P., Y. Pomeau, and C. Vidal. Order Within Chaos. New York, NY: Wiley 1987. textbook:Guckenheimer, J., and P. Holmes. Nonlinear Oscillations, Dynamical Systems and Bifurcations of Vector Fields. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Rodolfo Rosales term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This graduate level course focuses on nonlinear dynamics with applications. It takes an intuitive approach with emphasis on geometric thinking, computational and analytical methods and makes extensive use of demonstration software.
18.404J | Theory of Computation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-404j-theory-of-computation-fall-2006 | textbook:Sipser, Michael. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Thomson Course Technology, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Sipser term:Fall 2006 features:Exams (no solutions) description:This graduate level course is more extensive and theoretical treatment of the material in Computability, and Complexity (6.045J / 18.400J). Topics include Automata and Language Theory, Computability Theory, and Complexity Theory.
18.405J | Advanced Complexity Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-405j-advanced-complexity-theory-fall-2001 | textbook:Sipser, M. Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 1st ed. Florence, KY: Thomson/Brooks Cole, 1996. textbook:Papadimitriou, C. H.Computational Complexity. 1st ed. Boston: Addison Wesley Publishing Company, 1994. textbook:Handbook of Computer Science. Vol. A. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1994. textbook:Savage, John E. Models of Computation. Boston: Pearson Education POD, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Daniel Spielman term:Fall 2001 features:Lecture notes description:The topics for this course&#160;cover various aspects of complexity theory, such as&#160; the basic time and space classes, the polynomial-time hierarchy and the randomized classes . This is a pure theory class, so no applications were involved.
18.409 | Algorithmic Aspects of Machine Learning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-409-algorithmic-aspects-of-machine-learning-spring-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Ankur Moitra term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is organized around algorithmic issues that arise in machine learning. Modern machine learning systems are often built on top of algorithms that do not have provable guarantees, and it is the subject of debate when and why they work. In this class, we focus on designing algorithms whose performance we can rigorously analyze for fundamental machine learning problems.
18.409 | Topics in Theoretical Computer Science: An Algorithmist's Toolkit | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-409-topics-in-theoretical-computer-science-an-algorithmists-toolkit-fall-2009 | textbook:Motwani, Rajeev, and Prabhakar Raghavan. Randomized Algorithms. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Jonathan Kelner term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers a collection of geometric techniques that apply broadly in modern algorithm design.
18.409 | Behavior of Algorithms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-409-behavior-of-algorithms-spring-2002 | textbook:Amenta, Nina, and Gunter Ziegler. "Deformed Products and Maximal Shadows of Polytopes." Advances in Discrete and Computational Geometry. Edited by B. Chazelle, J. E. Goodman, R. Pollack. Vol. 223, Contemporary Mathematics. Providence, R.I.: Amer. Math. Soc., 1999, pp. 57-90. level:Graduate instructors:Daniel Spielman term:Spring 2002 features:Lecture notes description:This course is a study of Behavior of Algorithms and covers an area of current interest in theoretical computer science. The topics vary from term to term. During this term, we discuss rigorous approaches to explaining the typical performance of algorithms with a focus on the following approaches:&nbsp;smoothed analysis, condition numbers/parametric analysis, and subclassing inputs.
18.415J | Advanced Algorithms (Fall 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-854j-advanced-algorithms-fall-2008 | textbook:Cormen, T.H., C.E. Leiserson, R.L. Rivest, and C. Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Schrijver, A. Theory of Linear and Integer Programming. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1998. textbook:Groetschel, M., L. Lovasz, and A. Schrijver. Geometric Algorithms and Combinatorial Optimization. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993, chapter 3. textbook:Chvatal, V. Linear Programming. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and Company, 1983, appendix. textbook:Korte, B. H., and J. Vygen. Combinatorial Optimization. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2002, chapter 4. textbook:Roos, C., T. Terlaky, and J.-Ph. Vial. Theory and Algorithms for Linear Optimization: An Interior Point Approach. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1997. textbook:Boyd, Stephen, and Lieven Vandenberghe. Convex Optimization . Cambridge, UK: Cambridge Univ. Press, 2005. textbook:Vazirani, V. Approximation Algorithms. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2004. textbook:Hochbaum, D., ed. Approximation Algorithms for NP-Hard Problems. Boston: PWS Publishing Company, 1996. textbook:de Berg, Mark, O. Cheong, M. van Kreveld, and M. Overmars. Computational Geometry. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2008. textbook:Lov'asz, L. "An Algorithmic Theory of Numbers, Graphs, and Convexity." In CBMS Regional Conference Series in Applied Mathematics (SIAM, 1986). Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1987. textbook:Bach, E., and J. Shallit. Algorithmic Number Theory. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, August 26, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Michel Goemans term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes description:This is a graduate course on the design and analysis of algorithms, covering several advanced topics not studied in typical introductory courses on algorithms. It is especially designed for doctoral students interested in theoretical computer science.
18.415J | Advanced Algorithms (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-854j-advanced-algorithms-fall-2005 | textbook:Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, and Stein. Introduction to Algorithms. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. textbook:Ahuja, Magnanti, and Orlin. Network Flows. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1993. textbook:Motwani and Raghavan. Randomized Algorithms. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Borodin, Allan, and Ran El-Yaniv. Online Computation and Competitive Analysis. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Tarjan, Robert. Data Structures and Network Algorithms. Philadelphia, PA: Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 1983. textbook:Berg, Mark de, Marc van Kreveld, Mark Overmars, and Otfried Schwarzkopf. Computational Geometry: Algorithms and Applications. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2000. textbook:Hochbaum, Dorit, ed. Approximation Algorithms for NP-Hard Problems. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing Company, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:David R. Karger term:Fall 2005 features: description:This course is a first-year graduate course in algorithms. Emphasis is placed on fundamental algorithms and advanced methods of algorithmic design, analysis, and implementation. Techniques to be covered include amortization, randomization, fingerprinting, word-level parallelism, bit scaling, dynamic programming, network flow, linear programming, fixed-parameter algorithms, and approximation algorithms. Domains include string algorithms, network optimization, parallel algorithms, computational geometry, online algorithms, external memory, cache, and streaming algorithms, and data structures.
18.416J | Randomized Algorithms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-856j-randomized-algorithms-fall-2002 | textbook:Motwani, and Raghavan. Randomized Algorithms. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Feller, William. An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications.Vol. 1. New York, NY: John Wiley, 1968. level:Graduate instructors:David R. Karger term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course examines how randomization can be used to make algorithms simpler and more efficient via random sampling, random selection of witnesses, symmetry breaking, and Markov chains. Topics covered include: randomized computation; data structures (hash tables, skip lists); graph algorithms (minimum spanning trees, shortest paths, minimum cuts); geometric algorithms (convex hulls, linear programming in fixed or arbitrary dimension); approximate counting; parallel algorithms; online algorithms; derandomization techniques; and tools for probabilistic analysis of algorithms.
18.417 | Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-417-introduction-to-computational-molecular-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:Readings are from the textbook:  Jones, Neil C., and Pavel A. Pevzner. An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms (Computational Molecular Biology), Bradford Books. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, August 1, 2004. textbook:Setubal, Carlos, and Joao Meidanis. Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology. 1st ed. Boston, MA: PWS Publishing, January 16, 1997. textbook:Durbin, Richard, Sean R. Eddy, Anders Krogh, and Graeme Mitchison. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, Reprint edition, July 1, 1999. textbook:Gusfield, Dan. Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology. 1st ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, January 15, 1997. textbook:Lodish, Harvey, David Baltimore, Arnold Berk, S. Lawrence Zipursky, Paul Matsudaira, and James Darnell. Molecular Cell Biology. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman & Company, 3rd Package edition, March 1, 1995. textbook:Branden, Carl-Ivar, and John Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Garland Publishing, January 15, 1999. textbook:Clote, Peter, and Rolf Backofen. Computational Molecular Biology: Introduction. 1st ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, September 22, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Ross Lippert term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course introduces the basic computational methods used to understand the cell on a molecular level. It covers subjects such as the sequence alignment algorithms: dynamic programming, hashing, suffix trees, and Gibbs sampling. Furthermore, it focuses on computational approaches to: genetic and physical mapping; genome sequencing, assembly, and annotation; RNA expression and secondary structure; protein structure and folding; and molecular interactions and dynamics.
18.426J | Advanced Topics in Cryptography | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-876j-advanced-topics-in-cryptography-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors: term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:The topics covered in this course include interactive proofs, zero-knowledge proofs, zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge, non-interactive zero-knowledge proofs, secure protocols, two-party secure computation, multiparty secure computation, and chosen-ciphertext security.
18.435J | Quantum Computation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-435j-quantum-computation-fall-2003 | textbook:The readings are in  Nielsen, Michael A., and Isaac L. Chuang. Quantum Computation and Quantum Information. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, September 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Peter Shor term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course provides an introduction to the theory and practice of quantum computation. Topics covered include: physics of information processing, quantum logic, quantum algorithms including Shor's factoring algorithm and Grover's search algorithm, quantum error correction, quantum communication, and cryptography.
18.437J | Distributed Algorithms | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-852j-distributed-algorithms-fall-2009 | textbook:[Lynch] =  Lynch, Nancy. Distributed Algorithms. Burlington, MA: Morgan Kaufmann, 1996. textbook:[Attiya and Welch] =  Attiya, Hagit, and Jennifer Welch. Distributed Computing: Fundamentals, Simulations, and Advanced Topics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2004. textbook:[Herlihy and Shavit] =  Herlihy, Maurice, and Nir Shavit. The Art of Multiprocessor Programming. Burlington, MA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2008. textbook:[Guerraoui and Kapalka] =  Guerraoui, Rachid, and Michal Kapalka. Transactional Memory: The Theory. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. textbook:[Dolev] =  Dolev, Shlomi. Self-Stabilization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Kaynar, Disun, Nancy Lynch, Roberto Segala, and Frits Vaandrager. The Theory of Timed I/O Automata. 2nd ed. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. textbook:Mattern, Friedemann. "Virtual Time and Global States of Distributed Systems." In Parallel and Distributed Algorithms: Proceedings of the International Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Algorithms (Chateau de Bonas, Gers, France, October, 1988). Edited by Michel Cosnard, et al. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1989, 215-226. textbook:Mattern, Friedemann. "Virtual Time and Global States of Distributed Systems." In Parallel and Distributed Algorithms: Proceedings of the International Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Algorithms (Chateau de Bonas, Gers, France, October, 1988). Edited by Michel Cosnard, et al. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North Holland, 1989, 215-226. textbook:Herlihy, Maurice, and Nir Shavit. The Art of Multiprocessor Programming. Burlington, MA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2008. textbook:Guerraoui, Rachid, and Michal Kapalka. Transactional Memory: The Theory. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. textbook:Dolev, Shlomi. Self-Stabilization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Attiya, Hagit, and Jennifer Welch. Distributed Computing: Fundamentals, Simulations, and Advanced Topics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2004. textbook:Kaynar, Disun, Nancy Lynch, Roberto Segala, and Frits Vaandrager. The Theory of Timed I/O Automata. 2nd ed. San Rafael, CA: Morgan and Claypool, 2010. level:Graduate instructors:Nancy Lynch term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Distributed algorithms are algorithms designed to run on multiple processors, without tight centralized control. In general, they are harder to design and harder to understand than single-processor sequential algorithms. Distributed algorithms are used in many practical systems, ranging from large computer networks to multiprocessor shared-memory systems. They also have a rich theory, which forms the subject matter for this course.The core of the material will consist of basic distributed algorithms and impossibility results, as covered in Prof. Lynch's book Distributed Algorithms. This will be supplemented by some updated material on topics such as self-stabilization, wait-free computability, and failure detectors, and some new material on scalable shared-memory concurrent programming.
18.445 | Introduction to Stochastic Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-445-introduction-to-stochastic-processes-spring-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Hao Wu term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course is an introduction to Markov chains, random walks, martingales, and Galton-Watsom tree. The course requires basic knowledge in probability theory and linear algebra including conditional expectation and matrix.
18.465 | Topics in Statistics: Statistical Learning Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-465-topics-in-statistics-statistical-learning-theory-spring-2007 | textbook:Vapnik, Vladimir Naumovich. The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: Springer, 1998. textbook:———. Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: Wiley, 1998. textbook:Ledoux, Michel, and Michel Talagrand. Probability in Banach Spaces: Isoperimetry and Processes. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1991. textbook:van der Vaart, Aad W., and Jon A. Wellner. Weak Convergence and Empirical Processes: With Applications to Statistics. New York, NY: Springer, 2000. textbook:Anthony, Martin, and Peter L. Bartlett. Neural Network Learning: Theoretical Foundations. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1999. textbook:Devroye, Luc, László Györfi, and Gábor Lugosi. A Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Springer, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Dmitry Panchenko term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:The main goal of this course is to study the generalization ability of a number of popular machine learning algorithms such as boosting, support vector machines and neural networks. Topics include Vapnik-Chervonenkis theory, concentration inequalities in product spaces, and other elements of empirical process theory.
18.465 | Topics in Statistics: Nonparametrics and Robustness | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-465-topics-in-statistics-nonparametrics-and-robustness-spring-2005 | textbook:Randles, R. H., and D. A. Wolfe. Introduction to the Theory of Nonparametric Statistics. Malabar, FL: Krieger, 1991. textbook:Devroye, L. Non-Uniform Random Variate Generation.  New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1986. level:Graduate instructors:Richard Dudley term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This graduate-level course focuses on one-dimensional nonparametric statistics developed mainly from around 1945 and deals with order statistics and ranks, allowing very general distributions. For multidimensional nonparametric statistics, an early approach was to choose a fixed coordinate system and work with order statistics and ranks in each coordinate. A more modern method, to be followed in this course, is to look for rotationally or affine invariant procedures. These can be based on empirical processes as in computer learning theory. Robustness, which developed mainly from around 1964, provides methods that are resistant to errors or outliers in the data, which can be arbitrarily large. Nonparametric methods tend to be robust.
18.466 | Mathematical Statistics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-466-mathematical-statistics-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Richard Dudley term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:This graduate level mathematics course covers decision theory, estimation, confidence intervals, and hypothesis testing. The course also introduces students to large sample theory. Other topics covered include&#160;asymptotic efficiency of estimates, exponential families, and sequential analysis.
18.705 | Commutative Algebra | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-705-commutative-algebra-fall-2008 | textbook:R: Reid, Miles. Undergraduate Commutative Algebra: London Mathematical Society Student Texts. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, April 26, 1996. textbook:AM: Atiyah, Michael, and Ian Macdonald. Introduction to Commutative Algebra. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1994. textbook:E: Eisenbud, David. Commutative Algebra: With a View Toward Algebraic Geometry. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1999. level:Graduate instructors:Steven Kleiman term:Fall 2008 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:In this course students will learn about Noetherian rings and modules, Hilbert basis theorem, Cayley-Hamilton theorem, integral dependence, Noether normalization, the Nullstellensatz, localization, primary decomposition, DVRs, filtrations, length, Artin rings, Hilbert polynomials, tensor products, and dimension theory.
18.725 | Algebraic Geometry (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-725-algebraic-geometry-fall-2003 | textbook:Mumford, David. The Red Book of Varieties and Schemes. Vol. 1358, Lecture Notes in Mathematics. New York: Springer-Verlag. textbook:Shafarevich, I. R., and M. Reid. Basic Algebraic Geometry I. 2nd revised and expanded ed. Berlin; New York: Springer-Verlag Telos. textbook:Hartshorne, Robin. Algebraic Geometry. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1977. textbook:Eisenbud, David. Commutative Algebra With a View Toward Algebraic Geometry. Vol. 150, Graduate Texts in Mathematics. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1994. textbook:Atiyah, M. F., and I. G. MacDonald. Introduction to Commutative Algebra. Reading, Mass.: Addison Wesley Publishing Company, 1969. level:Graduate instructors:Martin Olsson term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes description:This course covers the fundamental notions and results about algebraic varieties over an algebraically closed field. It also analyzes the relations between complex algebraic varieties and complex analytic varieties.
18.726 | Algebraic Geometry (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-726-algebraic-geometry-spring-2009 | textbook:Shafarevich, Igor R. Basic Algebraic Geometry 1: Varieties in Projective Space. Translated by Miles Reid. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1994. textbook:Mumford, David. The Red Book of Varieties and Schemes. New York, NY: Springer, 2009. textbook:Hartshorne, Robin. Algebraic Geometry. New York, NY: Springer, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Kiran Kedlaya term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to the language of schemes, properties of morphisms, and sheaf cohomology. Together with 18.725 Algebraic Geometry, students gain an understanding of the basic notions and techniques of modern algebraic geometry.
18.727 | Topics in Algebraic Geometry: Algebraic Surfaces | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-727-topics-in-algebraic-geometry-algebraic-surfaces-spring-2008 | textbook:Badescu, Lucian. Algebraic Surfaces. Translated by Vladimir Masek. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:Barth, Wolf P., Klaus Hulek, Chris A. M. Peters, and Antonius Van de Ven. Compact Complex Surfaces. 2nd ed. Berlin, Germany: Springer, 2004. textbook:Beauville, Arnaud. Complex Algebraic Surfaces. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Griffiths, Phillip, and Joseph Harris. "Surfaces." Chapter 4 in Principles of Algebraic Geometry. New York, NY: Willey-Interscience, 1994. textbook:Hartshorne, Robin. "Surfaces." Chapter 5 in Algebraic Geometry. New York, NY: Springer, 1997. textbook:Mumford, D. "Enriques' Classification of Surfaces in Characteristic p, I." Global Analysis: Papers in Honor of K. Kodaira. Edited by Donald Clayton Spencer and Shokichi Iyanaga. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press: 1969, pp. 325-339. level:Graduate instructors:Abhinav Kumar term:Spring 2008 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:The main aims of this seminar will be to go over the classification of surfaces (Enriques-Castelnuovo for characteristic zero, Bombieri-Mumford for characteristic p), while working out plenty of examples, and treating their geometry and arithmetic as far as possible.
18.727 | Topics in Algebraic Geometry: Intersection Theory on Moduli Spaces | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-727-topics-in-algebraic-geometry-intersection-theory-on-moduli-spaces-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Izzet Coskun term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:The topics for this course vary each semester. This semester, the course aims to introduce techniques for studying intersection theory on moduli spaces. In particular, it covers the geometry of homogeneous varieties, the Deligne-Mumford moduli spaces of stable curves and the Kontsevich moduli spaces of stable maps using intersection theory.
18.735 | Double Affine Hecke Algebras in Representation Theory, Combinatorics, Geometry, and Mathematical Physics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-735-double-affine-hecke-algebras-in-representation-theory-combinatorics-geometry-and-mathematical-physics-fall-2009 | level:Graduate instructors:Pavel Etingof term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes description:Double affine Hecke algebras (DAHA), also called Cherednik algebras, and their representations appear in many contexts: integrable systems (Calogero-Moser and Ruijsenaars models), algebraic geometry (Hilbert schemes), orthogonal polynomials, Lie theory, quantum groups, etc. In this course we will review the basic theory of DAHA and their representations, emphasizing their connections with other subjects and open problems.
18.755 | Introduction to Lie Groups | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-755-introduction-to-lie-groups-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Sigurdur Helgason term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course is devoted to the theory of Lie Groups with emphasis on its connections with Differential Geometry. The text for this class is&nbsp;Differential Geometry, Lie Groups and Symmetric Spaces by Sigurdur Helgason (American Mathematical Society, 2001).Much of the course material is based on Chapter&nbsp;I (first half) and Chapter&nbsp;II of the text. The text however develops basic Riemannian Geometry, Complex Manifolds, as well as a detailed theory of Semisimple Lie Groups and Symmetric Spaces.
18.769 | Topics in Lie Theory: Tensor Categories | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-769-topics-in-lie-theory-tensor-categories-spring-2009 | level:Graduate instructors:Pavel Etingof term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course will give a detailed introduction to the theory of tensor categories and review some of its connections to other subjects (with a focus on representation-theoretic applications). In particular, we will discuss categorifications of such notions from ring theory as: module, morphism of modules, Morita equivalence of rings, commutative ring, the center of a ring, the centralizer of a subring, the double centralizer property, graded ring, etc.
18.783 | Elliptic Curves | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-783-elliptic-curves-spring-2015 | textbook:[Washington] =  Washington, Lawrence C. Elliptic Curves: Number Theory and Cryptography. Chapman & Hall / CRC, 2008. textbook:[Milne] =  Milne, J. S. Elliptic Curves. BookSurge Publishing, 2006. textbook:[Silverman] =  Silverman, Joseph H. The Arithmetic of Elliptic Curves. Springer, 2009. textbook:[Silverman (Advanced Topics)] =  Silverman, Joseph H. Advanced Topics in the Arithmetic of Elliptic Curves. Springer, 1994. textbook:[Cox] =  Cox, David A. Primes of the Form x2 + ny2: Fermat, Class Field Theory, and Complex Multiplication. Wiley-Interscience, 1989. textbook:Gathen, Joachim von zur, and Jürgen Gerhard. Chapter 3, Sec. 9.1, and Sec. 11.1 in Modern Computer Algebra. Cambridge University Press, 2003. textbook:Cohen, Henri, Gerhard Frey, and Roberto Avanzi. Chapter 9 in Handbook of Elliptic and Hyperelliptic Curve Cryptography. Chapman & Hall / CRC, 2005. textbook:Granville, Andrew. "Smooth Numbers: Computational Number Theory and Beyond." (PDF) In Algorithmic Number Theory: Lattices, Number Fields, Curves and Cryptography. Cambridge University Press, 2008. textbook:Cornell, Gary, Joseph H. Silverman, and Glenn Stevens. Chapter 1 in Modular Forms and Fermat's Last Theorem. Springer, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Andrew Sutherland term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This graduate-level course is a computationally focused introduction to elliptic curves, with applications to number theory and cryptography.
18.785 | Analytic Number Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-785-analytic-number-theory-spring-2007 | textbook:Davenport, H., and H. L. Montgomery. Multiplicative Number Theory. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2000. textbook:Iwaniec, Henryk, and Emmanuel Kowalski. Analytic Number Theory. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Kiran Kedlaya term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is an introduction to analytic number theory, including the use of zeta functions and L-functions to prove distribution results concerning prime numbers (e.g., the prime number theorem in arithmetic progressions).
18.786 | Topics in Algebraic Number Theory (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-786-topics-in-algebraic-number-theory-spring-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Abhinav Kumar term:Spring 2010 features: description:This course provides an introduction to algebraic number theory. Topics covered include dedekind domains, unique factorization of prime ideals, number fields, splitting of primes, class group, lattice methods, finiteness of the class number, Dirichlet's units theorem, local fields, ramification, discriminants.
18.786 | Topics in Algebraic Number Theory (Spring 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-786-topics-in-algebraic-number-theory-spring-2006 | textbook:Janusz =   Janusz, Gerald J. Algebraic Number Fields. 2nd ed. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 1996. textbook:Neukirch =   Neukirch, Jürgen. Algebraische Zahlentheorie. (Algebraic Number Theory). Translated from the German by Norbert Schappacher. Berlin, Germany; New York, NY: Springer, c1999. textbook:Cassels-Fröhlich =   Cassels, J. W. S., and A. Fröhlich. "Algebraic number theory." Proceedings of an instructional conference organized by the London Mathematical Society (a NATO advanced study institute) with the support of the International Mathematical Union. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1967. level:Graduate instructors:Kiran Kedlaya term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course is a first course in algebraic number theory. Topics to be covered include number fields, class numbers, Dirichlet's units theorem, cyclotomic fields, local fields, valuations, decomposition and inertia groups, ramification, basic analytic methods, and basic class field theory. An additional theme running throughout the course will be the use of computer algebra to investigate number-theoretic questions; this theme will appear primarily in the problem sets.
18.905 | Algebraic Topology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-905-algebraic-topology-fall-2006 | textbook:Hatcher, Allen. Algebraic Topology. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Tyler Lawson term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is a first course in algebraic topology. The emphasis is on homology and cohomology theory, including cup products, Kunneth formulas, intersection pairings, and the Lefschetz fixed point theorem.
18.906 | Algebraic Topology II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-906-algebraic-topology-ii-spring-2006 | textbook:Hatcher. Algebraic Topology. Cambridge, New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:May. A Concise Course in Algebraic Topology. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1999. textbook:Milnor and Stasheff. Characteristic Classes. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1974. level:Graduate instructors:Mark Behrens term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this second term of Algebraic Topology, the topics covered include fibrations, homotopy groups, the Hurewicz theorem, vector bundles, characteristic classes, cobordism, and possible further topics at the discretion of the instructor.
18.915 | Graduate Topology Seminar: Kan Seminar | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-915-graduate-topology-seminar-kan-seminar-fall-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Haynes Miller term:Fall 2014 features:Instructor insights description:This is a literature seminar with a focus on classic papers in Algebraic Topology. It is named after the late MIT professor Daniel Kan. Each student gives one or two talks on each of three papers, chosen in consultation with the instructor, reads all the papers presented by other students, and writes reactions to the papers. This course is useful not only to students pursuing algebraic topology as a field of study, but also to those interested in symplectic geometry, representation theory, and combinatorics.
18.917 | Topics in Algebraic Topology: The Sullivan Conjecture | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-917-topics-in-algebraic-topology-the-sullivan-conjecture-fall-2007 | textbook:Schwartz, Lionel. Unstable Modules over the Steenrod Algebra and Sullivan's Fixed Point Set Conjecture. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1994. level:Graduate instructors:Jacob Lurie term:Fall 2007 features:Lecture notes description:The goal of this course is to describe some of the tools which enter into the proof of Sullivan's conjecture.
18.965 | Geometry of Manifolds (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-965-geometry-of-manifolds-fall-2004 | textbook:Bott, Raoul, R. Bott, and Loring W. Tu. Differential Forms in Algebraic Topology (Graduate Texts in Mathematics; 82). Reprint edition. New York: Springer-Verlag, June 1, 1995. textbook:Abraham, Ralph, Jerrold E. Marsden, and Tudor Ratiu. "Manifolds, Tensor Analysis, and Applications." Applied Mathematical Sciences. Vol. 75. New York: Springer Verlag, May 1, 1998. textbook:Hirsch, Morris W. "Differential Topology." Graduate Texts in Mathematics. Vol. 33. Reprint edition. New York: Springer-Verlag, November 1, 1988. level:Graduate instructors:Tomasz Mrowka term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:Geometry of Manifolds analyzes topics such as the differentiable manifolds and vector fields and forms. It also makes an introduction to Lie groups, the de Rham theorem, and Riemannian manifolds.
18.966 | Geometry of Manifolds (Spring 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-966-geometry-of-manifolds-spring-2007 | textbook:Cannas da Silva, A. Lectures on Symplectic Geometry (Lecture Notes in Mathematics). New York City, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:Wells, R. O. Differential Analysis on Complex Manifolds. New York City, NY: Springer, 1980. textbook:McDuff, D., and D. Salamon. Introduction to Symplectic Topology. New York City, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Morgan, J. W. The Seiberg-Witten Equations and Applications to the Topology of Smooth Four-Manifolds (Mathematical Notes 44). Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1995, level:Graduate instructors:Denis Auroux term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This is a second-semester graduate course on the geometry of manifolds. The main emphasis is on the geometry of symplectic manifolds, but the material also includes long digressions into complex geometry and the geometry of 4-manifolds, with special emphasis on topological considerations.
18.969 | Topics in Geometry: Mirror Symmetry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-969-topics-in-geometry-mirror-symmetry-spring-2009 | textbook:Cox, David A., and Sheldon Katz. Mirror Symmetry and Algebraic Geometry, Mathematical Surveys and Monographs. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 1999. textbook:Hori, K., S. Katz, A. Klemm, R. Panharipande, R. Thomas, C. Vafa, R. Vakil, and E. Zaslow, eds. Mirror Symmetry. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 2003. textbook:Gross, Mark, Daniel Huybrechts, and Dominic Joyce. Calabi-Yau Manifolds and Related Geometries: Lectures at a Summer School in Nordfjordeid, Norway, June 2001. New York, NY: Springer, 2009. textbook:McDuff, Dusa, and Dietmar Salamon. J-holomorphic Curves and Symplectic Topology. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Denis Auroux term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes description:This course will focus on various aspects of mirror symmetry. It is aimed at students who already have some basic knowledge in symplectic and complex geometry (18.966, or equivalent). The geometric concepts needed to formulate various mathematical versions of mirror symmetry will be introduced along the way, in variable levels of detail and rigor.
18.969 | Topics in Geometry: Dirac Geometry | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-969-topics-in-geometry-dirac-geometry-fall-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Marco Gualtieri term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This is an introductory (i.e. first year graduate students are welcome and expected) course in generalized geometry, with a special emphasis on Dirac geometry, as developed by Courant, Weinstein, and Severa, as well as generalized complex geometry, as introduced by Hitchin. Dirac geometry is based on the idea of unifying the geometry of a Poisson structure with that of a closed 2-form, whereas generalized complex geometry unifies complex and symplectic geometry. For this reason, the latter is intimately related to the ideas of mirror symmetry.
18.996 | Random Matrix Theory and Its Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-996-random-matrix-theory-and-its-applications-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Moe Win,  Alan Edelman term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This course is an introduction to the basics of random matrix theory, motivated by engineering and scientific applications.
18.996 | Topics in Theoretical Computer Science : Internet Research Problems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-996-topics-in-theoretical-computer-science-internet-research-problems-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Maggs,  Ravi Sundaram,  Shang-Hua Teng,  Tom Leighton term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:We will discuss numerous research problems that are related to the internet. Sample topics include: routing algorithms such as BGP, communication protocols such as TCP, algorithms for intelligently selecting a resource in the face of uncertainty, bandwidth sensing tools, load balancing algorithms, streaming protocols, determining the structure of the internet, cost optimization, DNS-related problems, visualization, and large-scale data processing. The seminar is intended for students who are ready to work on challenging research problems. Each lecture will discuss:methods used todayissues and problemsformulation of concrete problemspotential new lines of researchA modest amount of background information will be provided so that the importance and context of the problems can be understood. No previous study of the internet is required, but experience with algorithms and/or theoretical computer science at the graduate/research level is needed.
18.996A | Simplicity Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-996a-simplicity-theory-spring-2004 | textbook:Wagner, Frank O. Simple Theories. Vol. 503. Mathematics and its Applications. Dordrecht, NL: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2000. textbook:Wagner, Frank O. Simple Theories. Vol. 503. Mathematics and its Applications. Dordrecht, NL: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Itay Ben-Yaacov term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This is an advanced topics course in model theory whose main theme is simple theories. We treat simple theories in the framework of compact abstract theories, which is more general than that of first order theories. We cover the basic properties of independence (i.e., non-dividing) in simple theories, the characterization of simple theories by the existence of a notion of independence, and hyperimaginary canonical bases.
18.997 | Topics in Combinatorial Optimization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-997-topics-in-combinatorial-optimization-spring-2004 | textbook:Schrijver, Alexander. Combinatorial Optimization: Polyhedra and Efficiency. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Michel Goemans term:Spring 2004 features:Lecture notes description:In this graduate-level course, we will be covering advanced topics in combinatorial optimization. We will start with non-bipartite matchings and cover many results extending the fundamental results of matchings, flows and matroids. The emphasis is on the derivation of purely combinatorial results, including min-max relations, and not so much on the corresponding algorithmic questions of how to find such objects. The intended audience consists of Ph.D. students interested in optimization, combinatorics, or combinatorial algorithms.
18.S996 | Category Theory for Scientists | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-s996-category-theory-for-scientists-spring-2013 | level:Graduate instructors:David I. Spivak term:Spring 2013 features:Online textbooks, Projects and examples, This Course at MIT description:The goal of this class is to prove that category theory is a powerful language for understanding and formalizing common scientific models. The power of the language will be tested by its ability to penetrate into taken-for-granted ideas, either by exposing existing weaknesses or flaws in our understanding, or by highlighting hidden commonalities across scientific fields.
18.S997 | High-Dimensional Statistics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-s997-high-dimensional-statistics-spring-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Philippe Rigollet term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course offers an introduction to the finite sample analysis of high- dimensional statistical methods. The goal is to present various proof techniques for state-of-the-art methods in regression, matrix estimation and principal component analysis (PCA) as well as optimality guarantees. The course ends with research questions that are currently open. You can read more about Prof. Rigollet's work and courses on his website
18.S997 | The Polynomial Method | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-s997-the-polynomial-method-fall-2012 | level:Graduate instructors:Lawrence Guth term:Fall 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course offers an introduction to the polynomial method as applied to solving problems in combinatorics in the last decade. The course also explores the connections between the polynomial method as used in these problems to the polynomial method in other fields, including computer science, number theory, and analysis.
