arxiv-1710-01079 | Optimal DNN Primitive Selection with Partitioned Boolean Quadratic Programming | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.01079 | id:1710.01079 author:Andrew Anderson, David Gregg category:cs.PF cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-10-03 summary:Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) require very large amounts of computation both for training and for inference when deployed in the field. Many different algorithms have been proposed to implement the most computationally expensive layers of DNNs. Further, each of these algorithms has a large number of variants, which offer different trade-offs of parallelism, data locality, memory footprint, and execution time. In addition, specific algorithms operate much more efficiently on specialized data layouts and formats. We state the problem of optimal primitive selection in the presence of data format transformations, and show that it is NP-hard by demonstrating an embedding in the Partitioned Boolean Quadratic Assignment problem (PBQP). We propose an analytic solution via a PBQP solver, and evaluate our approach experimentally by optimizing several popular DNNs using a library of more than 70 DNN primitives, on an embedded platform and a general purpose platform. We show experimentally that significant gains are possible versus the state of the art vendor libraries by using a principled analytic solution to the problem of layout selection in the presence of data format transformations. version:1
arxiv-1710-01052 | Simulating Structure-from-Motion | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.01052 | id:1710.01052 author:Martin Hahner, Orestis Varesis, Panagiotis Bountouris category:cs.CV cs.GR cs.RO  published:2017-10-03 summary:The implementation of a Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipeline from a synthetically generated scene as well as the investigation of the faithfulness of diverse reconstructions is the subject of this project. A series of different SfM reconstructions are implemented and their camera pose estimations are being contrasted with their respective ground truth locations. Finally, injection of ground truth location data into the rendered images in order to reduce the estimation error of the camera poses is studied as well. version:1
arxiv-1710-00978 | Supervised Q-walk for Learning Vector Representation of Nodes in Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00978 | id:1710.00978 author:Naimish Agarwal, G. C. Nandi category:cs.SI cs.AI  published:2017-10-03 summary:Automatic feature learning algorithms are at the forefront of modern day machine learning research. We present a novel algorithm, supervised Q-walk, which applies Q-learning to generate random walks on graphs such that the walks prove to be useful for learning node features suitable for tackling with the node classification problem. We present another novel algorithm, k-hops neighborhood based confidence values learner, which learns confidence values of labels for unlabelled nodes in the network without first learning the node embedding. These confidence values aid in learning an apt reward function for Q-learning. We demonstrate the efficacy of supervised Q-walk approach over existing state-of-the-art random walk based node embedding learners in solving the single / multi-label multi-class node classification problem using several real world datasets. Summarising, our approach represents a novel state-of-the-art technique to learn features, for nodes in networks, tailor-made for dealing with the node classification problem. version:1
arxiv-1710-00967 | Cartman: Cartesian Manipulator for Warehouse Automation in Cluttered Environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00967 | id:1710.00967 author:M. McTaggart, D. Morrison, A. W. Tow, R. Smith, Norton Kelly-Boxall, Anton Milan, T. Pham Zheyu Zhuang, J. Leitner, I. Reid, P. Corke, C. Lehnert category:cs.RO  published:2017-10-03 summary:Robotic manipulation and grasping in cluttered and unstructured environments is a current challenge for robotics. Enabling robots to operate in these challenging environments have direct applications from automating warehouses to harvesting fruit in agriculture. One of the main challenges associated with these difficult robotic manipulation tasks is the motion planning and control problem for multi-DoF (Degree of Freedom) manipulators. This paper presents the design and performance evaluation of a novel low cost Cartesian manipulator, Cartman who took first place in the Amazon Robotics Challenge 2017. It can perform pick and place tasks of household items in a cluttered environment. The robot is capable of linear speeds of 1 m/s and angular speeds of 1.5 rad/s, capable of sub-millimeter static accuracy and safe payload capacity of 2kg. Cartman can be produced for under 10 000 AUD. The complete design will be open sourced and will be available at the time of ICRA 2018. version:1
arxiv-1710-00336 | Parameter Sharing Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient for Cooperative Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00336 | id:1710.00336 author:Xiangxiang Chu, Hangjun Ye category:cs.AI  published:2017-10-01 summary:Deep reinforcement learning for multi-agent cooperation and competition has been a hot topic recently. This paper focuses on cooperative multi-agent problem based on actor-critic methods under local observations settings. Multi agent deep deterministic policy gradient obtained state of art results for some multi-agent games, whereas, it cannot scale well with growing amount of agents. In order to boost scalability, we propose a parameter sharing deterministic policy gradient method with three variants based on neural networks, including actor-critic sharing, actor sharing and actor sharing with partially shared critic. Benchmarks from rllab show that the proposed method has advantages in learning speed and memory efficiency, well scales with growing amount of agents, and moreover, it can make full use of reward sharing and exchangeability if possible. version:2
arxiv-1709-08772 | Dynamic Reconfiguration of Mission Parameters in Underwater Human-Robot Collaboration | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08772 | id:1709.08772 author:Md Jahidul Islam, Marc Ho, Junaed Sattar category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-09-26 summary:This paper presents a real-time programming and parameter reconfiguration method for autonomous underwater robots in human-robot collaborative tasks. Using a set of intuitive and meaningful hand gestures, we develop a syntactically simple framework that is computationally more efficient than a complex, grammar-based approach. In the proposed framework, a convolutional neural network is trained to provide accurate hand gesture recognition; subsequently, a finite-state machine-based deterministic model performs efficient gesture-to-instruction mapping, and further improves robustness of the interaction scheme. The key aspect of this framework is that it can be easily adopted by divers for communicating simple instructions to underwater robots without using artificial tags such as fiducial markers, or requiring them to memorize a potentially complex set of language rules. Extensive experiments are performed both on field-trial data and through simulation, which demonstrate the robustness, efficiency, and portability of this framework in a number of different scenarios. Finally, a user interaction study is presented that illustrates the gain in usability of our proposed interaction framework compared to the existing methods for underwater domains. version:3
arxiv-1709-07932 | Expanding Motor Skills through Relay Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07932 | id:1709.07932 author:Visak C. V. Kumar, Sehoon Ha, C. Karen Liu category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-22 summary:While the recent advances in deep reinforcement learning have achieved impressive results in learning motor skills, many of the trained policies are only capable within a limited set of initial states. We propose a technique to break down a complex robotic task to simpler subtasks and train them sequentially such that the robot can expand its existing skill set gradually. Our key idea is to build a tree of local control policies represented by neural networks, which we refer as Relay Neural Networks. Starting from the root policy that attempts to achieve the task from a small set of initial states, each subsequent policy expands the set of successful initial states by driving the new states to existing "good" states. Our algorithm utilizes the value function of the policy to determine whether a state is "good" under each policy. We take advantage of many existing policy search algorithms that learn the value function simultaneously with the policy, such as those that use actor-critic representations or those that use the advantage function to reduce variance. We demonstrate that the relay networks can solve complex continuous control problems for underactuated dynamic systems. version:2
arxiv-1710-00893 | PIRVS: An Advanced Visual-Inertial SLAM System with Flexible Sensor Fusion and Hardware Co-Design | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00893 | id:1710.00893 author:Zhe Zhang, Shaoshan Liu, Grace Tsai, Hongbing Hu, Chen-Chi Chu, Feng Zheng category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-10-02 summary:In this paper, we present the PerceptIn Robotics Vision System (PIRVS) system, a visual-inertial computing hardware with embedded simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. The PIRVS hardware is equipped with a multi-core processor, a global-shutter stereo camera, and an IMU with precise hardware synchronization. The PIRVS software features a novel and flexible sensor fusion approach to not only tightly integrate visual measurements with inertial measurements and also to loosely couple with additional sensor modalities. It runs in real-time on both PC and the PIRVS hardware. We perform a thorough evaluation of the proposed system using multiple public visual-inertial datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our system reaches comparable accuracy of state-of-the-art visual-inertial algorithms on PC, while being more efficient on the PIRVS hardware. version:1
arxiv-1710-00892 | Rényi Differential Privacy Mechanisms for Posterior Sampling | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00892 | id:1710.00892 author:Joseph Geumlek, Shuang Song, Kamalika Chaudhuri category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CR  published:2017-10-02 summary:Using a recently proposed privacy definition of R\'enyi Differential Privacy (RDP), we re-examine the inherent privacy of releasing a single sample from a posterior distribution. We exploit the impact of the prior distribution in mitigating the influence of individual data points. In particular, we focus on sampling from an exponential family and specific generalized linear models, such as logistic regression. We propose novel RDP mechanisms as well as offering a new RDP analysis for an existing method in order to add value to the RDP framework. Each method is capable of achieving arbitrary RDP privacy guarantees, and we offer experimental results of their efficacy. version:1
arxiv-1710-00794 | What Does Explainable AI Really Mean? A New Conceptualization of Perspectives | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00794 | id:1710.00794 author:Derek Doran, Sarah Schulz, Tarek R. Besold category:cs.AI  published:2017-10-02 summary:We characterize three notions of explainable AI that cut across research fields: opaque systems that offer no insight into its algo- rithmic mechanisms; interpretable systems where users can mathemat- ically analyze its algorithmic mechanisms; and comprehensible systems that emit symbols enabling user-driven explanations of how a conclusion is reached. The paper is motivated by a corpus analysis of NIPS, ACL, COGSCI, and ICCV/ECCV paper titles showing differences in how work on explainable AI is positioned in various fields. We close by introducing a fourth notion: truly explainable systems, where automated reasoning is central to output crafted explanations without requiring human post processing as final step of the generative process. version:1
arxiv-1710-00748 | Effective Straggler Mitigation: Which Clones Should Attack and When? | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00748 | id:1710.00748 author:Mehmet Fatih Aktas, Pei Peng, Emina Soljanin category:cs.PF cs.DC cs.IT math.IT  published:2017-10-02 summary:Redundancy for straggler mitigation, originally in data download and more recently in distributed computing context, has been shown to be effective both in theory and practice. Analysis of systems with redundancy has drawn significant attention and numerous papers have studied pain and gain of redundancy under various service models and assumptions on the straggler characteristics. We here present a cost (pain) vs. latency (gain) analysis of using simple replication or erasure coding for straggler mitigation in executing jobs with many tasks. We quantify the effect of the tail of task execution times and discuss tail heaviness as a decisive parameter for the cost and latency of using redundancy. Specifically, we find that coded redundancy achieves better cost vs. latency and allows for greater achievable latency and cost tradeoff region compared to replication and can yield reduction in both cost and latency under less heavy tailed execution times. We show that delaying redundancy is not effective in reducing cost. version:1
arxiv-1710-00734 | CHIPS: A Service for Collecting, Organizing, Processing, and Sharing Medical Image Data in the Cloud | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00734 | id:1710.00734 author:Rudolph Pienaar, Ata Turk, Jorge Bernal-Rusiel, Nicolas Rannou, Daniel Haehn, P. Ellen Grant, Orran Krieger category:cs.DC cs.CY  published:2017-10-02 summary:Web browsers are increasingly used as middleware platforms offering a central access point for service provision. Using backend containerization, RESTful APIs, and distributed computing allows for complex systems to be realized that address the needs of modern compute intense environments. In this paper, we present a web-based medical image data and information management software platform called CHIPS (Cloud Healthcare Image Processing Service). This cloud-based services allows for authenticated and secure retrieval of medical image data from resources typically found in hospitals, organizes and presents information in a modern feed-like interface, provides access to a growing library of plugins that process these data, allows for easy data sharing between users and provides powerful 3D visualization and real-time collaboration. Image processing is orchestrated across additional cloud-based resources using containerization technologies. version:1
arxiv-1710-00714 | Revealing the Unseen: How to Expose Cloud Usage While Protecting User Privacy | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00714 | id:1710.00714 author:Ata Turk, Mayank Varia, Georgios Kellaris category:cs.CR cs.DC  published:2017-10-02 summary:Cloud users have little visibility into the performance characteristics and utilization of the physical machines underpinning the virtualized cloud resources they use. This uncertainty forces users and researchers to reverse engineer the inner workings of cloud systems in order to understand and optimize the conditions their applications operate. At Massachusetts Open Cloud (MOC), as a public cloud operator, we'd like to expose the utilization of our physical infrastructure to stop this wasteful effort. Mindful that such exposure can be used maliciously for gaining insight into other users workloads, in this position paper we argue for the need for an approach that balances openness of the cloud overall with privacy for each tenant inside of it. We believe that this approach can be instantiated via a novel combination of several security and privacy technologies. We discuss the potential benefits, implications of transparency for cloud systems and users, and technical challenges/possibilities. version:1
arxiv-1710-00610 | Improving Spark Application Throughput Via Memory Aware Task Co-location: A Mixture of Experts Approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00610 | id:1710.00610 author:Vicent Sanz Marco, Ben Taylor, Barry Porter, Zheng Wang category:cs.DC  published:2017-10-02 summary:Data analytic applications built upon big data processing frameworks such as Apache Spark are an important class of applications. Many of these applications are not latency-sensitive and thus can run as batch jobs in data centers. By running multiple applications on a computing host, task co-location can significantly improve the server utilization and system throughput. However, effective task co-location is a non-trivial task, as it requires an understanding of the computing resource requirement of the co-running applications, in order to determine what tasks, and how many of them, can be co-located. In this paper, we present a mixture-of-experts approach to model the memory behavior of Spark applications. We achieve this by learning, off-line, a range of specialized memory models on a range of typical applications; we then determine at runtime which of the memory models, or experts, best describes the memory behavior of the target application. We show that by accurately estimating the resource level that is needed, a co-location scheme can effectively determine how many applications can be co-located on the same host to improve the system throughput, by taking into consideration the memory and CPU requirements of co-running application tasks. Our technique is applied to a set of representative data analytic applications built upon the Apache Spark framework. We evaluated our approach for system throughput and average normalized turnaround time on a multi-core cluster. Our approach achieves over 83.9% of the performance delivered using an ideal memory predictor. We obtain, on average, 8.69x improvement on system throughput and a 49% reduction on turnaround time over executing application tasks in isolation, which translates to a 1.28x and 1.68x improvement over a state-of-the-art co-location scheme for system throughput and turnaround time respectively. version:1
arxiv-1710-00604 | Safe Local Exploration for Replanning in Cluttered Unknown Environments for Micro-Aerial Vehicles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00604 | id:1710.00604 author:Helen Oleynikova, Zachary Taylor, Roland Siegwart, Juan Nieto category:cs.RO  published:2017-10-02 summary:In order to enable Micro-Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) to assist in complex, unknown, unstructured environments, they must be able to navigate with guaranteed safety, even when faced with a cluttered environment they have no prior knowledge of. While trajectory optimization-based local planners have been shown to perform well in these cases, prior work either does not address how to deal with local minima in the optimization problem, or solves it by using an optimistic global planner. We present a conservative trajectory optimization-based local planner, coupled with a local exploration strategy that selects intermediate goals. We perform extensive simulations to show that this system performs better than the standard approach of using an optimistic global planner, and also outperforms doing a single exploration step when the local planner is stuck. The method is validated through experiments in a variety of highly cluttered environments including a dense forest. These experiments show the complete system running in real time fully onboard an MAV, mapping and replanning at 4 Hz. version:1
arxiv-1512-07487 | Selecting the top-quality item through crowd scoring | http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.07487 | id:1512.07487 author:Alessandro Nordio, Alberto Tarable, Emilio Leonardi, Marco Ajmone Marsan category:cs.HC cs.AI  published:2015-12-23 summary:We investigate crowdsourcing algorithms for finding the top-quality item within a large collection of objects with unknown intrinsic quality values. This is an important problem with many relevant applications, for example in networked recommendation systems. The core of the algorithms is that objects are distributed to crowd workers, who return a noisy and biased evaluation. All received evaluations are then combined, to identify the top-quality object. We first present a simple probabilistic model for the system under investigation. Then, we devise and study a class of efficient adaptive algorithms to assign in an effective way objects to workers. We compare the performance of several algorithms, which correspond to different choices of the design parameters/metrics. In the simulations we show that some of the algorithms achieve near optimal performance for a suitable setting of the system parameters. version:2
arxiv-1710-00490 | The Dutch's Real World Financial Institute: Introducing Quantum-Like Bayesian Networks as an Alternative Model to deal with Uncertainty | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00490 | id:1710.00490 author:Catarina Moreira, Emmanuel Haven, Sandro Sozzo, Andreas Wichert category:cs.AI quant-ph  published:2017-10-02 summary:In this work, we analyse and model a real life financial loan application belonging to a sample bank in the Netherlands. The log is robust in terms of data, containing a total of 262 200 event logs, belonging to 13 087 different credit applications. The dataset is heterogeneous and consists of a mixture of computer generated automatic processes and manual human tasks. The goal is to work out a decision model, which represents the underlying tasks that make up the loan application service, and to assess potential areas of improvement of the institution's internal processes. To this end we study the impact of incomplete event logs for the extraction and analysis of business processes. It is quite common that event logs are incomplete with several amounts of missing information (for instance, workers forget to register their tasks). Absence of data is translated into a drastic decrease of precision and compromises the decision models, leading to biased and unrepresentative results. We investigate how classical probabilistic models are affected by incomplete event logs and we explore quantum-like probabilistic inferences as an alternative mathematical model to classical probability. This work represents a first step towards systematic investigation of the impact of quantum interference in a real life large scale decision scenario. The results obtained in this study indicate that, under high levels of uncertainty, the quantum-like models generate quantum interference terms, which allow an additional non-linear parameterisation of the data. Experimental results attest the efficiency of the quantum-like Bayesian networks, since the application of interference terms is able to reduce the error percentage of inferences performed over quantum-like models when compared to inferences produced by classical models. version:1
arxiv-1710-00489 | SE3-Pose-Nets: Structured Deep Dynamics Models for Visuomotor Planning and Control | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00489 | id:1710.00489 author:Arunkumar Byravan, Felix Leeb, Franziska Meier, Dieter Fox category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.CV cs.NE cs.SY  published:2017-10-02 summary:In this work, we present an approach to deep visuomotor control using structured deep dynamics models. Our deep dynamics model, a variant of SE3-Nets, learns a low-dimensional pose embedding for visuomotor control via an encoder-decoder structure. Unlike prior work, our dynamics model is structured: given an input scene, our network explicitly learns to segment salient parts and predict their pose-embedding along with their motion modeled as a change in the pose space due to the applied actions. We train our model using a pair of point clouds separated by an action and show that given supervision only in the form of point-wise data associations between the frames our network is able to learn a meaningful segmentation of the scene along with consistent poses. We further show that our model can be used for closed-loop control directly in the learned low-dimensional pose space, where the actions are computed by minimizing error in the pose space using gradient-based methods, similar to traditional model-based control. We present results on controlling a Baxter robot from raw depth data in simulation and in the real world and compare against two baseline deep networks. Our method runs in real-time, achieves good prediction of scene dynamics and outperforms the baseline methods on multiple control runs. Video results can be found at: https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/se3-structured-deep-ctrl/ version:1
arxiv-1710-00466 | Patrolling a Path Connecting a Set of Points with Unbalanced Frequencies of Visits | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00466 | id:1710.00466 author:Huda Chuangpishit, Jurek Czyzowicz, Leszek Gasieniec, Konstantinos Georgiou, Tomasz Jurdzinski, Evangelos Kranakis category:cs.DC cs.DS  published:2017-10-02 summary:Patrolling consists of scheduling perpetual movements of a collection of mobile robots, so that each point of the environment is regularly revisited by any robot in the collection. In previous research, it was assumed that all points of the environment needed to be revisited with the same minimal frequency. In this paper we study efficient patrolling protocols for points located on a path, where each point may have a different constraint on frequency of visits. The problem of visiting such divergent points was recently posed by Gasieniec et al. in [13], where the authors study protocols using a single robot patrolling a set of $n$ points located in nodes of a complete graph and in Euclidean spaces. The focus in this paper is on patrolling with two robots. We adopt a scenario in which all points to be patrolled are located on a line. We provide several approximation algorithms concluding with the best currently known $\sqrt 3$-approximation. version:1
arxiv-1710-00461 | Creating a Social Brain for Cooperative Connected Autonomous Vehicles: Issues and Challenges | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00461 | id:1710.00461 author:Seng W. Loke category:cs.AI cs.CY  published:2017-10-02 summary:The connected autonomous vehicle has been often touted as a technology that will become pervasive in society in the near future. Rather than being stand alone, we examine the need for autonomous vehicles to cooperate and interact within their socio-cyber-physical environments, including the problems cooperation will solve, but also the issues and challenges. version:1
arxiv-1710-00459 | Deep Abstract Q-Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00459 | id:1710.00459 author:Melrose Roderick, Christopher Grimm, Stefanie Tellex category:cs.LG cs.AI  published:2017-10-02 summary:We examine the problem of learning and planning on high-dimensional domains with long horizons and sparse rewards. Recent approaches have shown great successes in many Atari 2600 domains. However, domains with long horizons and sparse rewards, such as Montezuma's Revenge and Venture, remain challenging for existing methods. Methods using abstraction (Dietterich 2000; Sutton, Precup, and Singh 1999) have shown to be useful in tackling long-horizon problems. We combine recent techniques of deep reinforcement learning with existing model-based approaches using an expert-provided state abstraction. We construct toy domains that elucidate the problem of long horizons, sparse rewards and high-dimensional inputs, and show that our algorithm significantly outperforms previous methods on these domains. Our abstraction-based approach outperforms Deep Q-Networks (Mnih et al. 2015) on Montezuma's Revenge and Venture, and exhibits backtracking behavior that is absent from previous methods. version:1
arxiv-1710-00448 | Learning event representation: As sparse as possible, but not sparser | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00448 | id:1710.00448 author:Tuan Do, James Pustejovsky category:cs.CV cs.AI  published:2017-10-02 summary:Selecting an optimal event representation is essential for event classification in real world contexts. In this paper, we investigate the application of qualitative spatial reasoning (QSR) frameworks for classification of human-object interaction in three dimensional space, in comparison with the use of quantitative feature extraction approaches for the same purpose. In particular, we modify QSRLib, a library that allows computation of Qualitative Spatial Relations and Calculi, and employ it for feature extraction, before inputting features into our neural network models. Using an experimental setup involving motion captures of human-object interaction as three dimensional inputs, we observe that the use of qualitative spatial features significantly improves the performance of our machine learning algorithm against our baseline, while quantitative features of similar kinds fail to deliver similar improvement. We also observe that sequential representations of QSR features yield the best classification performance. A result of our learning method is a simple approach to the qualitative representation of 3D activities as compositions of 2D actions that can be visualized and learned using 2-dimensional QSR. version:1
arxiv-1710-00440 | Unsupervised Learning for Nonlinear PieceWise Smooth Hybrid Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00440 | id:1710.00440 author:Gilwoo Lee, Zita Marinho, Aaron M. Johnson, Geoffrey J. Gordon, Siddhartha S. Srinivasa, Matthew T. Mason category:cs.RO  published:2017-10-02 summary:This paper introduces a novel system identification and tracking method for PieceWise Smooth (PWS) nonlinear stochastic hybrid systems. We are able to correctly identify and track challenging problems with diverse dynamics and low dimensional transitions. We exploit the composite structure system to learn a simpler model on each component/mode. We use Gaussian Process Regression techniques to learn smooth, nonlinear manifolds across mode transitions, guard-regions, and make multi-step ahead predictions on each mode dynamics. We combine a PWS non-linear model with a particle filter to effectively track multi-modal transitions. We further use synthetic oversampling techniques to address the challenge of detecting mode transition which is sparse compared to mode dynamics. This work provides an effective form of model learning in a complex hybrid system, which can be useful for future integration in a reinforcement learning setting. We compare multi-step prediction and tracking performance against traditional dynamical system tracking methods, such as EKF and Switching Gaussian Processes, and show that this framework performs significantly better, being able to correctly track complex dynamics with sparse transitions. version:1
arxiv-1710-00419 | Physics-based Motion Planning with Temporal Logic Specifications | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00419 | id:1710.00419 author:Muhayyuddin, Aliakbar Akbari, Jan Rosell category:cs.RO  published:2017-10-01 summary:One of the main foci of robotics is nowadays centered in providing a great degree of autonomy to robots. A fundamental step in this direction is to give them the ability to plan in discrete and continuous spaces to find the required motions to complete a complex task. In this line, some recent approaches describe tasks with Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) and reason on discrete actions to guide sampling-based motion planning, with the aim of finding dynamically-feasible motions that satisfy the temporal-logic task specifications. The present paper proposes an LTL planning approach enhanced with the use of ontologies to describe and reason about the task, on the one hand, and that includes physics-based motion planning to allow the purposeful manipulation of objects, on the other hand. The proposal has been implemented and is illustrated with didactic examples with a mobile robot in simple scenarios where some of the goals are occupied with objects that must be removed in order to fulfill the task. version:1
arxiv-1710-00414 | Straggler Mitigation by Delayed Relaunch of Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00414 | id:1710.00414 author:Mehmet Fatih Aktas, Pei Peng, Emina Soljanin category:cs.PF cs.DC cs.IT math.IT  published:2017-10-01 summary:Redundancy for straggler mitigation, originally in data download and more recently in distributed computing context, has been shown to be effective both in theory and practice. Analysis of systems with redundancy has drawn significant attention and numerous papers have studied pain and gain of redundancy under various service models and assumptions on the straggler characteristics. We here present a cost (pain) vs. latency (gain) analysis of using simple replication or erasure coding for straggler mitigation in executing jobs with many tasks. We quantify the effect of the tail of task execution times and discuss tail heaviness as a decisive parameter for the cost and latency of using redundancy. Specifically, we find that coded redundancy achieves better cost vs. latency tradeoff than simple replication and can yield reduction in both cost and latency under less heavy tailed execution times. We show that delaying redundancy is not effective in reducing cost and that delayed relaunch of stragglers can yield significant reduction in cost and latency. We validate these observations by comparing with the simulations that use empirical distributions extracted from Google cluster data. version:1
arxiv-1709-09093 | Beyond opening up the black box: Investigating the role of algorithmic systems in Wikipedian organizational culture | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09093 | id:1709.09093 author:R. Stuart Geiger category:cs.CY cs.AI cs.HC  published:2017-09-26 summary:Scholars and practitioners across domains are increasingly concerned with algorithmic transparency and opacity, interrogating the values and assumptions embedded in automated, black-boxed systems, particularly in user-generated content platforms. I report from an ethnography of infrastructure in Wikipedia to discuss an often understudied aspect of this topic: the local, contextual, learned expertise involved in participating in a highly automated social-technical environment. Today, the organizational culture of Wikipedia is deeply intertwined with various data-driven algorithmic systems, which Wikipedians rely on to help manage and govern the "anyone can edit" encyclopedia at a massive scale. These bots, scripts, tools, plugins, and dashboards make Wikipedia more efficient for those who know how to work with them, but like all organizational culture, newcomers must learn them if they want to fully participate. I illustrate how cultural and organizational expertise is enacted around algorithmic agents by discussing two autoethnographic vignettes, which relate my personal experience as a veteran in Wikipedia. I present thick descriptions of how governance and gatekeeping practices are articulated through and in alignment with these automated infrastructures. Over the past 15 years, Wikipedian veterans and administrators have made specific decisions to support administrative and editorial workflows with automation in particular ways and not others. I use these cases of Wikipedia's bot-supported bureaucracy to discuss several issues in the fields of critical algorithms studies, critical data studies, and fairness, accountability, and transparency in machine learning -- most principally arguing that scholarship and practice must go beyond trying to "open up the black box" of such systems and also examine sociocultural processes like newcomer socialization. version:2
arxiv-1710-00310 | Personalized Fuzzy Text Search Using Interest Prediction and Word Vectorization | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00310 | id:1710.00310 author:Yun Liu, Tianmeng Gao, Baolin Song, Chengwei Huang category:cs.IR cs.AI  published:2017-10-01 summary:In this paper we study the personalized text search problem. The keyword based search method in conventional algorithms has a low efficiency in understanding users' intention since the semantic meaning, user profile, user interests are not always considered. Firstly, we propose a novel text search algorithm using a inverse filtering mechanism that is very efficient for label based item search. Secondly, we adopt the Bayesian network to implement the user interest prediction for an improved personalized search. According to user input, it searches the related items using keyword information, predicted user interest. Thirdly, the word vectorization is used to discover potential targets according to the semantic meaning. Experimental results show that the proposed search engine has an improved efficiency and accuracy and it can operate on embedded devices with very limited computational resources. version:1
arxiv-1710-00290 | Translating Videos to Commands for Robotic Manipulation with Deep Recurrent Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00290 | id:1710.00290 author:Anh Nguyen, Dimitrios Kanoulas, Luca Muratore, Darwin G. Caldwell, Nikos G. Tsagarakis category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-10-01 summary:We present a new method to translate videos to commands for robotic manipulation using Deep Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN). Our framework first extracts deep features from the input video frames with a deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). Two RNN layers with an encoder-decoder architecture are then used to encode the visual features and sequentially generate the output words as the command. We demonstrate that the translation accuracy can be improved by allowing a smooth transaction between two RNN layers and using the state-of-the-art feature extractor. The experimental results on our new challenging dataset show that our approach outperforms recent methods by a fair margin. Furthermore, we combine the proposed translation module with the vision and planning system to let a robot perform various manipulation tasks. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on a full-size humanoid robot WALK-MAN. version:1
arxiv-1710-00283 | A Versatile Approach to Evaluating and Testing Automated Vehicles based on Kernel Methods | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00283 | id:1710.00283 author:Zhiyuan Huang, Yaohui Guo, Henry Lam, Ding Zhao category:cs.LG cs.RO stat.ML  published:2017-10-01 summary:Evaluation and validation of complicated control systems are crucial to guarantee usability and safety. Usually, failure happens in some very rarely encountered situations, but once triggered, the consequence is disastrous. Accelerated Evaluation is a methodology that efficiently tests those rarely-occurring yet critical failures via smartly-sampled test cases. The distribution used in sampling is pivotal to the performance of the method, but building a suitable distribution requires case-by-case analysis. This paper proposes a versatile approach for constructing sampling distribution using kernel method. The approach uses statistical learning tools to approximate the critical event sets and constructs distributions based on the unique properties of Gaussian distributions. We applied the method to evaluate the automated vehicles. Numerical experiments show proposed approach can robustly identify the rare failures and significantly reduce the evaluation time. version:1
arxiv-1710-03189 | Towards Agent-Based Model Specification in Smart Grid: A Cognitive Agent-based Computing Approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.03189 | id:1710.03189 author:Waseem Akram, Muaz A. Niazi, Laszlo Barna Iantovics category:cs.MA cs.AI physics.soc-ph  published:2017-10-01 summary:Smart grid can be considered as a complex network where each node represents generation unit, producer, and links represent transmission lines. Agent-based modeling (ABM) is a paradigm represents a complex system of autonomous agents and their interactions with each other. Previously, numbers of study have been presented in smart grid domain using ABM methodologies. However, these study lack in following any ABM specification approach. The purely text based specification tends to be ambiguous and make the model difficult to be replicated. In this paper, we present an ABM for smart grid using a combination of agent-based and complex network based approaches. Then we present ODD and DREAM specification approach for our ABM in the smart grid. We compare these two specification techniques qualitatively as well as quantitatively and conclude that DREAM approach is better than ODD in term of understanding and replicating ABM. version:1
arxiv-1710-00274 | A Data-driven Approach Towards Human-robot Collaborative Problem Solving in a Shared Space | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00274 | id:1710.00274 author:Michael Wollowski, Carlotta Berry, Ryder Winck, Alan Jern, David Voltmer, Alan Chiu, Yosi Shibberu category:cs.HC cs.RO  published:2017-10-01 summary:We are developing a system for human-robot communication that enables people to communicate with robots in a natural way and is focused on solving problems in a shared space. Our strategy for developing this system is fundamentally data-driven: we use data from multiple input sources and train key components with various machine learning techniques. We developed a web application that is collecting data on how two humans communicate to accomplish a task, as well as a mobile laboratory that is instrumented to collect data on how two humans communicate to accomplish a task in a physically shared space. The data from these systems will be used to train and fine-tune the second stage of our system, in which the robot will be simulated through software. A physical robot will be used in the final stage of our project. We describe these instruments, a test-suite and performance metrics designed to evaluate and automate the data gathering process as well as evaluate an initial data set. version:1
arxiv-1710-00268 | DREMS-OS: An Operating System for Managed Distributed Real-time Embedded Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00268 | id:1710.00268 author:Abhishek Dubey, Gabor Karsai, Aniruddha Gokhale, William Emfinger, Pranav Kumar category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-30 summary:Distributed real-time and embedded (DRE) systems executing mixed criticality task sets are increasingly being deployed in mobile and embedded cloud computing platforms, including space applications. These DRE systems must not only operate over a range of temporal and spatial scales, but also require stringent assurances for secure interactions between the system's tasks without violating their individual timing constraints. To address these challenges, this paper describes a novel distributed operating system focusing on the scheduler design to support the mixed criticality task sets. Empirical results from experiments involving a case study of a cluster of satellites emulated in a laboratory testbed validate our claims. version:1
arxiv-1710-00267 | Distributed and Managed: Research Challenges and Opportunities of the Next Generation Cyber-Physical Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00267 | id:1710.00267 author:Gabor Karsai, Daniel Balasubramanian, Abhishek Dubey, William R. Otte category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-30 summary:Cyber-physical systems increasingly rely on distributed computing platforms where sensing, computing, actuation, and communication resources are shared by a multitude of applications. Such `cyber-physical cloud computing platforms' present novel challenges because the system is built from mobile embedded devices, is inherently distributed, and typically suffers from highly fluctuating connectivity among the modules. Architecting software for these systems raises many challenges not present in traditional cloud computing. Effective management of constrained resources and application isolation without adversely affecting performance are necessary. Autonomous fault management and real-time performance requirements must be met in a verifiable manner. It is also both critical and challenging to support multiple end-users whose diverse software applications have changing demands for computational and communication resources, while operating on different levels and in separate domains of security. The solution presented in this paper is based on a layered architecture consisting of a novel operating system, a middleware layer, and component-structured applications. The component model facilitates the construction of software applications from modular and reusable components that are deployed in the distributed system and interact only through well-defined mechanisms. The complexity of creating applications and performing system integration is mitigated through the use of a domain-specific model-driven development process that relies on a domain-specific modeling language and its accompanying graphical modeling tools, software generators for synthesizing infrastructure code, and the extensive use of model-based analysis for verification and validation. version:1
arxiv-1710-00262 | Fine-grained Event Learning of Human-Object Interaction with LSTM-CRF | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00262 | id:1710.00262 author:Tuan Do, James Pustejovsky category:cs.CV cs.AI  published:2017-09-30 summary:Event learning is one of the most important problems in AI. However, notwithstanding significant research efforts, it is still a very complex task, especially when the events involve the interaction of humans or agents with other objects, as it requires modeling human kinematics and object movements. This study proposes a methodology for learning complex human-object interaction (HOI) events, involving the recording, annotation and classification of event interactions. For annotation, we allow multiple interpretations of a motion capture by slicing over its temporal span, for classification, we use Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) sequential models with Conditional Randon Field (CRF) for constraints of outputs. Using a setup involving captures of human-object interaction as three dimensional inputs, we argue that this approach could be used for event types involving complex spatio-temporal dynamics. version:1
arxiv-1710-00239 | $κ$-PMP: Enhancing Physics-based Motion Planners with Knowledge-based Reasoning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00239 | id:1710.00239 author:Muhayyuddin, Aliakbar Akbari, Jan Rosell category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-30 summary:Physics-based motion planning is a challenging task, since it requires the computation of the robot motions while allowing possible interactions with (some of) the obstacles in the environment. Kinodynamic motion planners equipped with a dynamic engine acting as state propagator are usually used for that purpose. The difficulties arise in the setting of the adequate forces for the interactions and because these interactions may change the pose of the manipulatable obstacles, thus either facilitating or preventing the finding of a solution path. The use of knowledge can alleviate the stated difficulties. This paper proposes the use of an enhanced state propagator composed of a dynamic engine and a low-level geometric reasoning process that is used to determine how to interact with the objects, i.e. from where and with which forces. The proposal, called \k{appa}-PMP can be used with any kinodynamic planner, thus giving rise to e.g. \k{appa}-RRT. The approach also includes a preprocessing step that infers from a semantic abstract knowledge described in terms of an ontology the manipulation knowledge required by the reasoning process. The proposed approach has been validated with several examples involving an holonomic mobile robot, a robot with differential constraints and a serial manipulator, and benchmarked using several state-of-the art kinodynamic planners. The results showed a significant difference in the power consumption with respect to simple physics-based planning, an improvement in the success rate and in the quality of the solution paths. version:1
arxiv-1710-00228 | Physics-based Motion Planning: Evaluation Criteria and Benchmarking | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00228 | id:1710.00228 author:Muhayyuddin, Aliakbar Akbari, Jan Rosell category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-30 summary:Motion planning has evolved from coping with simply geometric problems to physics-based ones that incorporate the kinodynamic and the physical constraints imposed by the robot and the physical world. Therefore, the criteria for evaluating physics-based motion planners goes beyond the computational complexity (e.g. in terms of planning time) usually used as a measure for evaluating geometrical planners, in order to consider also the quality of the solution in terms of dynamical parameters. This study proposes an evaluation criteria and analyzes the performance of several kinodynamic planners, which are at the core of physics-based motion planning, using different scenarios with fixed and manipulatable objects. RRT, EST, KPIECE and SyCLoP are used for the benchmarking. The results show that KPIECE computes the time-optimal solution with heighest success rate, whereas, SyCLoP compute the most power-optimal solution among the planners used. version:1
arxiv-1710-00156 | Ultra-Wideband Aided Fast Localization and Mapping System | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00156 | id:1710.00156 author:Chen Wang, Handuo Zhang, Thien-Minh Nguyen, Lihua Xie category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-30 summary:This paper proposes an ultra-wideband (UWB) aided localization and mapping system that leverages on inertial sensor and depth camera. Inspired by the fact that visual odometry (VO) system, regardless of its accuracy in the short term, still faces challenges with accumulated errors in the long run or under unfavourable environments, the UWB ranging measurements are fused to remove the visual drift and improve the robustness. A general framework is developed which consists of three parallel threads, two of which carry out the visual-inertial odometry (VIO) and UWB localization respectively. The other mapping thread integrates visual tracking constraints into a pose graph with the proposed smooth and virtual range constraints, such that an optimization is performed to provide robust trajectory estimation. Experiments show that the proposed system is able to create dense drift-free maps in real-time even running on an ultra-low power processor in featureless environments. version:1
arxiv-1708-06248 | GraphR: Accelerating Graph Processing Using ReRAM | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.06248 | id:1708.06248 author:Linghao Song, Youwei Zhuo, Xuehai Qian, Hai Li, Yiran Chen category:cs.DC cs.AR  published:2017-08-21 summary:This paper presents GRAPHR, the first ReRAM-based graph processing accelerator. GRAPHR follows the principle of near-data processing and explores the opportunity of performing massive parallel analog operations with low hardware and energy cost. The analog computation is suitable for graph processing because: 1) The algorithms are iterative and could inherently tolerate the imprecision; 2) Both probability calculation (e.g., PageRank and Collaborative Filtering) and typical graph algorithms involving integers (e.g., BFS/SSSP) are resilient to errors. The key insight of GRAPHR is that if a vertex program of a graph algorithm can be expressed in sparse matrix vector multiplication (SpMV), it can be efficiently performed by ReRAM crossbar. We show that this assumption is generally true for a large set of graph algorithms. GRAPHR is a novel accelerator architecture consisting of two components: memory ReRAM and graph engine (GE). The core graph computations are performed in sparse matrix format in GEs (ReRAM crossbars). The vector/matrix-based graph computation is not new, but ReRAM offers the unique opportunity to realize the massive parallelism with unprecedented energy efficiency and low hardware cost. With small subgraphs processed by GEs, the gain of performing parallel operations overshadows the wastes due to sparsity. The experiment results show that GRAPHR achieves a 16.01x (up to 132.67x) speedup and a 33.82x energy saving on geometric mean compared to a CPU baseline system. Compared to GPU, GRAPHR achieves 1.69x to 2.19x speedup and consumes 4.77x to 8.91x less energy. GRAPHR gains a speedup of 1.16x to 4.12x, and is 3.67x to 10.96x more energy efficiency compared to PIM-based architecture. version:2
arxiv-1709-09612 | PlaTIBART: a Platform for Transactive IoT Blockchain Applications with Repeatable Testing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09612 | id:1709.09612 author:Michael A. Walker, Abhishek Dubey, Aron Laszka, Douglas C. Schmidt category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-27 summary:With the advent of blockchain-enabled IoT applications, there is an increased need for related software patterns, middleware concepts, and testing practices to ensure adequate quality and productivity. IoT and blockchain each provide different design goals, concepts, and practices that must be integrated, including the distributed actor model and fault tolerance from IoT and transactive information integrity over untrustworthy sources from blockchain. Both IoT and blockchain are emerging technologies and both lack codified patterns and practices for development of applications when combined. This paper describes PlaTIBART, which is a platform for transactive IoT blockchain applications with repeatable testing that combines the Actor pattern (which is a commonly used model of computation in IoT) together with a custom Domain Specific Language (DSL) and test network management tools. We show how PlaTIBART has been applied to develop, test, and analyze fault-tolerant IoT blockchain applications. version:2
arxiv-1710-00126 | 3DOF Pedestrian Trajectory Prediction Learned from Long-Term Autonomous Mobile Robot Deployment Data | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00126 | id:1710.00126 author:Li Sun, Zhi Yan, Sergi Molina Mellado, Marc Hanheide, Tom Duckett category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-30 summary:This paper presents a novel 3DOF pedestrian trajectory prediction approach for autonomous mobile service robots. While most previously reported methods are based on learning of 2D positions in monocular camera images, our approach uses range-finder sensors to learn and predict 3DOF pose trajectories (i.e. 2D position plus 1D rotation within the world coordinate system). Our approach, T-Pose-LSTM (Temporal 3DOF-Pose Long-Short-Term Memory), is trained using long-term data from real-world robot deployments and aims to learn context-dependent (environment- and time-specific) human activities. Our approach incorporates long-term temporal information (i.e. date and time) with short-term pose observations as input. A sequence-to-sequence LSTM encoder-decoder is trained, which encodes observations into LSTM and then decodes as predictions. For deployment, it can perform on-the-fly prediction in real-time. Instead of using manually annotated data, we rely on a robust human detection, tracking and SLAM system, providing us with examples in a global coordinate system. We validate the approach using more than 15K pedestrian trajectories recorded in a care home environment over a period of three months. The experiment shows that the proposed T-Pose-LSTM model advances the state-of-the-art 2D-based method for human trajectory prediction in long-term mobile robot deployments. version:1
arxiv-1710-00122 | An Efficient Load Balancing Method for Tree Algorithms | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00122 | id:1710.00122 author:Osama Talaat Ibrahim, Ahmed El-Mahdy category:cs.DC cs.PF  published:2017-09-30 summary:Nowadays, multiprocessing is mainstream with exponentially increasing number of processors. Load balancing is, therefore, a critical operation for the efficient execution of parallel algorithms. In this paper we consider the fundamental class of tree-based algorithms that are notoriously irregular, and hard to load-balance with existing static techniques. We propose a hybrid load balancing method using the utility of statistical random sampling in estimating the tree depth and node count distributions to uniformly partition an input tree. To conduct an initial performance study, we implemented the method on an Intel Xeon Phi accelerator system. We considered the tree traversal operation on both regular and irregular unbalanced trees manifested by Fibonacci and unbalanced (biased) randomly generated trees, respectively. The results show scalable performance for up to the 60 physical processors of the accelerator, as well as an extrapolated 128 processors case. version:1
arxiv-1612-00092 | Computer Assisted Composition with Recurrent Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.00092 | id:1612.00092 author:Christian Walder, Dongwoo Kim category:cs.AI  published:2016-12-01 summary:Sequence modeling with neural networks has lead to powerful models of symbolic music data. We address the problem of exploiting these models to reach creative musical goals, by combining with human input. To this end we generalise previous work, which sampled Markovian sequence models under the constraint that the sequence belong to the language of a given finite state machine provided by the human. We consider more expressive non-Markov models, thereby requiring approximate sampling which we provide in the form of an efficient sequential Monte Carlo method. In addition we provide and compare with a beam search strategy for conditional probability maximisation. Our algorithms are capable of convincingly re-harmonising famous musical works. To demonstrate this we provide visualisations, quantitative experiments, a human listening test and audio examples. We find both the sampling and optimisation procedures to be effective, yet complementary in character. For the case of highly permissive constraint sets, we find that sampling is to be preferred due to the overly regular nature of the optimisation based results. The generality of our algorithms permits countless other creative applications. version:2
arxiv-1609-03076 | Guided Policy Search with Delayed Sensor Measurements | http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.03076 | id:1609.03076 author:Connor Schenck, Dieter Fox category:cs.RO  published:2016-09-10 summary:Guided policy search is a method for reinforcement learning that trains a general policy for accomplishing a given task by guiding the learning of the policy with multiple guiding distributions. Guided policy search relies on learning an underlying dynamical model of the environment and then, at each iteration of the algorithm, using that model to gradually improve the policy. This model, though, often makes the assumption that the environment dynamics are markovian, e.g., depend only on the current state and control signal. In this paper we apply guided policy search to a problem with non-markovian dynamics. Specifically, we apply it to the problem of pouring a precise amount of liquid from a cup into a bowl, where many of the sensor measurements experience non-trivial amounts of delay. We show that, with relatively simple state augmentation, guided policy search can be extended to non-markovian dynamical systems, where the non-markovianess is caused by delayed sensor readings. version:2
arxiv-1710-00112 | Toward Scalable Machine Learning and Data Mining: the Bioinformatics Case | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00112 | id:1710.00112 author:Faraz Faghri, Sayed Hadi Hashemi, Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Mike A. Nalls, Saurabh Sinha, Roy H. Campbell category:cs.DC cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-09-29 summary:In an effort to overcome the data deluge in computational biology and bioinformatics and to facilitate bioinformatics research in the era of big data, we identify some of the most influential algorithms that have been widely used in the bioinformatics community. These top data mining and machine learning algorithms cover classification, clustering, regression, graphical model-based learning, and dimensionality reduction. The goal of this study is to guide the focus of scalable computing experts in the endeavor of applying new storage and scalable computation designs to bioinformatics algorithms that merit their attention most, following the engineering maxim of "optimize the common case". version:1
arxiv-1710-00100 | HEPCloud, a New Paradigm for HEP Facilities: CMS Amazon Web Services Investigation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00100 | id:1710.00100 author:Burt Holzman, Lothar A. T. Bauerdick, Brian Bockelman, Dave Dykstra, Ian Fisk, Stuart Fuess, Gabriele Garzoglio, Maria Girone, Oliver Gutsche, Dirk Hufnagel, Hyunwoo Kim, Robert Kennedy, Nicolo Magini, David Mason, Panagiotis Spentzouris, Anthony Tiradani, Steve Timm, Eric W. Vaandering category:cs.DC physics.comp-ph  published:2017-09-29 summary:Historically, high energy physics computing has been performed on large purpose-built computing systems. These began as single-site compute facilities, but have evolved into the distributed computing grids used today. Recently, there has been an exponential increase in the capacity and capability of commercial clouds. Cloud resources are highly virtualized and intended to be able to be flexibly deployed for a variety of computing tasks. There is a growing nterest among the cloud providers to demonstrate the capability to perform large-scale scientific computing. In this paper, we discuss results from the CMS experiment using the Fermilab HEPCloud facility, which utilized both local Fermilab resources and virtual machines in the Amazon Web Services Elastic Compute Cloud. We discuss the planning, technical challenges, and lessons learned involved in performing physics workflows on a large-scale set of virtualized resources. In addition, we will discuss the economics and operational efficiencies when executing workflows both in the cloud and on dedicated resources. version:1
arxiv-1710-00073 | CARMA: Contention-aware Auction-based Resource Management in Architecture | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00073 | id:1710.00073 author:Diman Zad Tootaghaj, Farshid Farhat category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-29 summary:Traditional resource management systems rely on a centralized approach to manage users running on each resource. The centralized resource management system is not scalable for large-scale servers as the number of users running on shared resources is increasing dramatically and the centralized manager may not have enough information about applications' need. In this paper we propose a distributed game-theoretic resource management approach using market auction mechanism to find optimal strategy in a resource competition game. The applications learn through repeated interactions to choose their action on choosing the shared resources. Specifically, we look into two case studies of cache competition game and main processor and co-processor congestion game. We enforce costs for each resource and derive bidding strategy. Accurate evaluation of the proposed approach show that our distributed allocation is scalable and outperforms the static and traditional approaches. version:1
arxiv-1710-00022 | Learning a Structured Neural Network Policy for a Hopping Task | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00022 | id:1710.00022 author:Julian Viereck, Jules Kozolinsky, Alexander Herzog, Ludovic Righetti category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:In this work, we attempt to learn a neural network policy for dynamic, underactuated locomotion tasks. Learning a policy for such a task is non trivial due to the dynamic, fast changing, non linear and contact rich dynamics of this task. We use existing trajectory optimization techniques to optimize a set of policies. For this, we present a method that allows to learn contact rich dynamics for underactuated systems in a sample efficient manner. Using a new kind of neural network architecture, we are able to preserve more control structure and information from the optimized policies. This way, the network output is more interpretable. We analyze the quality of the learned dynamics and the robustness as well as generalization of the learned network policy on a set of tasks for a simulated hopping task. We also inspect if the network has learned reasonable control structures from the optimized policies. version:1
arxiv-1709-10512 | Measuring Unsupervised-Supervised Real-Life Training of an Autonomous Model Car | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10512 | id:1709.10512 author:Sascha Hornauer, Karl Zipser, Stella Yu category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:In autonomous driving, imitation learning of driving behavior is an active area of research as it enables generalization to many different environments where current hand-crafted approaches are limited in their application. Steering and motor commands are trained i.e. as an output of a deep neural network, based on expert examples. However, this approach makes it often hard to judge the actual real-life performance, beyond loss-function and validation values. Current used metrics are often weakly expressive as they count the number of crashes or human interventions while driving (Bojarski et. al 2016). Furthermore, by learning from the example of a human expert, the performance of the human instructor will heavily determine the performance of driving. We propose a novel way to train obstacle avoidance and navigation using a multi-task network with minimal human interaction and show a detailed way of measuring the actual driving performance of the network after training. A path planner with perfect information about the environment trains a model-car to act on vision input alone to navigate in a narrow office space. For different sub-spaces of that scenario, where the very same trajectories have to be driven by the car in each run, an in-depth analysis of the trajectories before and after training is performed. This makes it possible to compare the actual driving behavior to training factors as the distribution of the input data and values of the loss- and validation-function in great detail. Furthermore, it is possible to measure how well chosen parameters of the desired behavior, as set in the path planner, are preserved in the resulting trajectories. version:1
arxiv-1709-10507 | Vision-based deep execution monitoring | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10507 | id:1709.10507 author:Francesco Puja, Simone Grazioso, Antonio Tammaro, Valsmis Ntouskos, Marta Sanzari, Fiora Pirri category:cs.AI cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:Execution monitor of high-level robot actions can be effectively improved by visual monitoring the state of the world in terms of preconditions and postconditions that hold before and after the execution of an action. Furthermore a policy for searching where to look at, either for verifying the relations that specify the pre and postconditions or to refocus in case of a failure, can tremendously improve the robot execution in an uncharted environment. It is now possible to strongly rely on visual perception in order to make the assumption that the environment is observable, by the amazing results of deep learning. In this work we present visual execution monitoring for a robot executing tasks in an uncharted Lab environment. The execution monitor interacts with the environment via a visual stream that uses two DCNN for recognizing the objects the robot has to deal with and manipulate, and a non-parametric Bayes estimation to discover the relations out of the DCNN features. To recover from lack of focus and failures due to missed objects we resort to visual search policies via deep reinforcement learning. version:1
arxiv-1709-10494 | Human motion primitive discovery and recognition | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10494 | id:1709.10494 author:Marta Sanzari, Valsamis Ntouskos, Simone Grazioso, Francesco Puja, Fiora Pirri category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-09-29 summary:We present a novel framework for the automatic discovery and recognition of human motion primitives from motion capture data. Human motion primitives are discovered by optimizing the 'motion flux', a quantity which depends on the motion of a group of skeletal joints. Models of each primitive category are computed via non-parametric Bayes methods and recognition is performed based on their geometric properties. A normalization of the primitives is proposed in order to make them invariant with respect to anatomical variations and data sampling rate. Using our framework we build a publicly available dataset of human motion primitives based on motion capture sequences taken from well-known datasets. We expect that our framework, by providing an objective way for discovering and categorizing human motion, will be a useful tool in numerous research fields related to Robotics including human inspired motion generation, learning by demonstration, and intuitive human-robot interaction. version:1
arxiv-1709-10489 | Self-supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning with Generalized Computation Graphs for Robot Navigation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10489 | id:1709.10489 author:Gregory Kahn, Adam Villaflor, Bosen Ding, Pieter Abbeel, Sergey Levine category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:Enabling robots to autonomously navigate complex environments is essential for real-world deployment. Prior methods approach this problem by having the robot maintain an internal map of the world, and then use a localization and planning method to navigate through the internal map. However, these approaches often include a variety of assumptions, are computationally intensive, and do not learn from failures. In contrast, learning-based methods improve as the robot acts in the environment, but are difficult to deploy in the real-world due to their high sample complexity. To address the need to learn complex policies with few samples, we propose a generalized computation graph that subsumes value-based model-free methods and model-based methods, with specific instantiations interpolating between model-free and model-based. We then instantiate this graph to form a navigation model that learns from raw images and is sample efficient. Our simulated car experiments explore the design decisions of our navigation model, and show our approach outperforms single-step and $N$-step double Q-learning. We also evaluate our approach on a real-world RC car and show it can learn to navigate through a complex indoor environment with a few hours of fully autonomous, self-supervised training. Videos of the experiments and code can be found at github.com/gkahn13/gcg version:1
arxiv-1709-10482 | What Automated Planning can do for Business Process Management | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10482 | id:1709.10482 author:Andrea Marrella category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-29 summary:Business Process Management (BPM) is a central element of today organizations. Despite over the years its main focus has been the support of processes in highly controlled domains, nowadays many domains of interest to the BPM community are characterized by ever-changing requirements, unpredictable environments and increasing amounts of data that influence the execution of process instances. Under such dynamic conditions, BPM systems must increase their level of automation to provide the reactivity and flexibility necessary for process management. On the other hand, the Artificial Intelligence (AI) community has concentrated its efforts on investigating dynamic domains that involve active control of computational entities and physical devices (e.g., robots, software agents, etc.). In this context, Automated Planning, which is one of the oldest areas in AI, is conceived as a model-based approach to synthesize autonomous behaviours in automated way from a model. In this paper, we discuss how automated planning techniques can be leveraged to enable new levels of automation and support for business processing, and we show some concrete examples of their successful application to the different stages of the BPM life cycle. version:1
arxiv-1709-07255 | Assumption-Based Approaches to Reasoning with Priorities | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07255 | id:1709.07255 author:Jesse Heyninck, Christian Straßer, Pere Pardo category:cs.AI 68T27 I.2.3; I.2.4  published:2017-09-21 summary:This paper maps out the relation between different approaches for handling preferences in argumentation with strict rules and defeasible assumptions by offering translations between them. The systems we compare are: non-prioritized defeats i.e. attacks, preference-based defeats, and preference-based defeats extended with reverse defeat. version:2
arxiv-1709-10452 | CObRaSO: Compliant Omni-Direction Bendable Hybrid Rigid and Soft OmniCrawler Module | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10452 | id:1709.10452 author:Akash Singh, Enna Sachdeva, Vinay Rodrigues, Aditya Dhavala, K. Madhava Krishna category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:This paper presents a novel design of an Omnidirectional bendable Omnicrawler module. Compared to conventional crawlers, OmniCrawler module possesses an extra degree of freedom for sideways rolling motion, and the circular crosssection of the module enables holonomic motion of the robot. These advantages are further enhanced by the introduction of Omnidirectional joint with-in the module, which is the key contribution of this paper. This achieves high maneuverability and adaptability of the OmniCrawler module on an uneven surface. The Omni-directional bending is realized by means of two mechanisms: a Telescopic screw drive mechanism, and an arrangement of two independent 1-DOF joints aligned at 90? with respect to each other. The hybrid soft-rigid structure of the module provides compliant pathways for lug-chain assembly which allows crawling motion even in the bent configuration of the module. We show that the unique modular design unveils its versatility in terms of achieving compliance on an uneven surface, demonstrating its applications in different robotic platforms, such as an in-pipeline robot, Quadruped, snake robot, and exhibiting hybrid locomotive traits in various configurations of the robots with the help of simulations and experiments results on real robot prototype. version:1
arxiv-1709-10445 | Synonym Discovery with Etymology-based Word Embeddings | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10445 | id:1709.10445 author:Seunghyun Yoon, Pablo Estrada, Kyomin Jung category:cs.CL cs.AI  published:2017-09-29 summary:We propose a novel approach to learn word embeddings based on an extended version of the distributional hypothesis. Our model derives word embedding vectors using the etymological composition of words, rather than the context in which they appear. It has the strength of not requiring a large text corpus, but instead it requires reliable access to etymological roots of words, making it specially fit for languages with logographic writing systems. The model consists on three steps: (1) building an etymological graph, which is a bipartite network of words and etymological roots, (2) obtaining the biadjacency matrix of the etymological graph and reducing its dimensionality, (3) using columns/rows of the resulting matrices as embedding vectors. We test our model in the Chinese and Sino-Korean vocabularies. Our graphs are formed by a set of 117,000 Chinese words, and a set of 135,000 Sino-Korean words. In both cases we show that our model performs well in the task of synonym discovery. version:1
arxiv-1709-10431 | The BURCHAK corpus: a Challenge Data Set for Interactive Learning of Visually Grounded Word Meanings | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10431 | id:1709.10431 author:Yanchao Yu, Arash Eshghi, Gregory Mills, Oliver Joseph Lemon category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:We motivate and describe a new freely available human-human dialogue dataset for interactive learning of visually grounded word meanings through ostensive definition by a tutor to a learner. The data has been collected using a novel, character-by-character variant of the DiET chat tool (Healey et al., 2003; Mills and Healey, submitted) with a novel task, where a Learner needs to learn invented visual attribute words (such as " burchak " for square) from a tutor. As such, the text-based interactions closely resemble face-to-face conversation and thus contain many of the linguistic phenomena encountered in natural, spontaneous dialogue. These include self-and other-correction, mid-sentence continuations, interruptions, overlaps, fillers, and hedges. We also present a generic n-gram framework for building user (i.e. tutor) simulations from this type of incremental data, which is freely available to researchers. We show that the simulations produce outputs that are similar to the original data (e.g. 78% turn match similarity). Finally, we train and evaluate a Reinforcement Learning dialogue control agent for learning visually grounded word meanings, trained from the BURCHAK corpus. The learned policy shows comparable performance to a rule-based system built previously. version:1
arxiv-1709-10426 | Training an adaptive dialogue policy for interactive learning of visually grounded word meanings | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10426 | id:1709.10426 author:Yanchao Yu, Arash Eshghi, Oliver Lemon category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:We present a multi-modal dialogue system for interactive learning of perceptually grounded word meanings from a human tutor. The system integrates an incremental, semantic parsing/generation framework - Dynamic Syntax and Type Theory with Records (DS-TTR) - with a set of visual classifiers that are learned throughout the interaction and which ground the meaning representations that it produces. We use this system in interaction with a simulated human tutor to study the effects of different dialogue policies and capabilities on the accuracy of learned meanings, learning rates, and efforts/costs to the tutor. We show that the overall performance of the learning agent is affected by (1) who takes initiative in the dialogues; (2) the ability to express/use their confidence level about visual attributes; and (3) the ability to process elliptical and incrementally constructed dialogue turns. Ultimately, we train an adaptive dialogue policy which optimises the trade-off between classifier accuracy and tutoring costs. version:1
arxiv-1709-10423 | Learning how to learn: an adaptive dialogue agent for incrementally learning visually grounded word meanings | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10423 | id:1709.10423 author:Yanchao Yu, Arash Eshghi, Oliver Lemon category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:We present an optimised multi-modal dialogue agent for interactive learning of visually grounded word meanings from a human tutor, trained on real human-human tutoring data. Within a life-long interactive learning period, the agent, trained using Reinforcement Learning (RL), must be able to handle natural conversations with human users and achieve good learning performance (accuracy) while minimising human effort in the learning process. We train and evaluate this system in interaction with a simulated human tutor, which is built on the BURCHAK corpus -- a Human-Human Dialogue dataset for the visual learning task. The results show that: 1) The learned policy can coherently interact with the simulated user to achieve the goal of the task (i.e. learning visual attributes of objects, e.g. colour and shape); and 2) it finds a better trade-off between classifier accuracy and tutoring costs than hand-crafted rule-based policies, including ones with dynamic policies. version:1
arxiv-1710-00692 | Aiding Autonomous Vehicles with Fault-tolerant V2V Communication | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00692 | id:1710.00692 author:Vladimir Savic, Elad M. Schiller, Marina Papatriantafilou category:cs.NI cs.DC  published:2017-09-29 summary:Vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication is a key component of the future autonomous driving systems. V2V can provide an improved awareness of the surrounding environment, and the knowledge about the future actions of nearby vehicles. However, V2V communication is subject to different kind of failures and delays, so a distributed fault-tolerant approach is required for safe and efficient transportation. This work considers fully autonomous vehicles that operates using local sensory information, and aided with fault-tolerant V2V communication. The sensors provide all basic functionality, but are overridden by V2V whenever is possible to increase the efficiency. As an example scenario, we consider intersection crossing (IC) with autonomous vehicles that cooperate via V2V communication, and propose a fully distributed and a fault-tolerant algorithm for this problem. According to our numerical results, based on a real data set, we show the crossing delay is only slightly increased in the presence of a burst of V2V failures, and that V2V can be successfully used in most scenarios. version:1
arxiv-1604-03632 | Strategyproof Peer Selection using Randomization, Partitioning, and Apportionment | http://arxiv.org/abs/1604.03632 | id:1604.03632 author:Haris Aziz, Omer Lev, Nicholas Mattei, Jeffrey S. Rosenschein, Toby Walsh category:cs.GT cs.AI cs.MA J.4; F.2; I.2  published:2016-04-13 summary:Peer review, evaluation, and selection is a fundamental aspect of modern science. Funding bodies the world over employ experts to review and select the best proposals of those submitted for funding. The problem of peer selection, however, is much more general: a professional society may want to give a subset of its members awards based on the opinions of all members; an instructor for a MOOC or online course may want to crowdsource grading; or a marketing company may select ideas from group brainstorming sessions based on peer evaluation. We make three fundamental contributions to the study of procedures or mechanisms for peer selection, a specific type of group decision-making problem, studied in computer science, economics, and political science. First, we propose a novel mechanism that is strategyproof, i.e., agents cannot benefit by reporting insincere valuations. Second, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our mechanism by a comprehensive simulation-based comparison with a suite of mechanisms found in the literature. Finally, our mechanism employs a randomized rounding technique that is of independent interest, as it solves the apportionment problem that arises in various settings where discrete resources such as parliamentary representation slots need to be divided proportionally. version:2
arxiv-1710-00641 | Improving speech recognition by revising gated recurrent units | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00641 | id:1710.00641 author:Mirco Ravanelli, Philemon Brakel, Maurizio Omologo, Yoshua Bengio category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG cs.NE  published:2017-09-29 summary:Speech recognition is largely taking advantage of deep learning, showing that substantial benefits can be obtained by modern Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). The most popular RNNs are Long Short-Term Memory (LSTMs), which typically reach state-of-the-art performance in many tasks thanks to their ability to learn long-term dependencies and robustness to vanishing gradients. Nevertheless, LSTMs have a rather complex design with three multiplicative gates, that might impair their efficient implementation. An attempt to simplify LSTMs has recently led to Gated Recurrent Units (GRUs), which are based on just two multiplicative gates. This paper builds on these efforts by further revising GRUs and proposing a simplified architecture potentially more suitable for speech recognition. The contribution of this work is two-fold. First, we suggest to remove the reset gate in the GRU design, resulting in a more efficient single-gate architecture. Second, we propose to replace tanh with ReLU activations in the state update equations. Results show that, in our implementation, the revised architecture reduces the per-epoch training time with more than 30% and consistently improves recognition performance across different tasks, input features, and noisy conditions when compared to a standard GRU. version:1
arxiv-1709-09587 | Multi-Label Classification of Patient Notes a Case Study on ICD Code Assignment | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09587 | id:1709.09587 author:Tal Baumel, Jumana Nassour-Kassis, Michael Elhadad, No`emie Elhadad category:cs.CL cs.AI  published:2017-09-27 summary:In the context of the Electronic Health Record, automated diagnosis coding of patient notes is a useful task, but a challenging one due to the large number of codes and the length of patient notes. We investigate four models for assigning multiple ICD codes to discharge summaries taken from both MIMIC II and III. We present Hierarchical Attention-GRU (HA-GRU), a hierarchical approach to tag a document by identifying the sentences relevant for each label. HA-GRU achieves state-of-the art results. Furthermore, the learned sentence-level attention layer highlights the model decision process, allows easier error analysis, and suggests future directions for improvement. version:2
arxiv-1710-01692 | IQ of Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.01692 | id:1710.01692 author:Dokhyam Hoshen, Michael Werman category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-09-29 summary:IQ tests are an accepted method for assessing human intelligence. The tests consist of several parts that must be solved under a time constraint. Of all the tested abilities, pattern recognition has been found to have the highest correlation with general intelligence. This is primarily because pattern recognition is the ability to find order in a noisy environment, a necessary skill for intelligent agents. In this paper, we propose a convolutional neural network (CNN) model for solving geometric pattern recognition problems. The CNN receives as input multiple ordered input images and outputs the next image according to the pattern. Our CNN is able to solve problems involving rotation, reflection, color, size and shape patterns and score within the top 5% of human performance. version:1
arxiv-1710-00675 | Sensor Synthesis for POMDPs with Reachability Objectives | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.00675 | id:1710.00675 author:Krishnendu Chatterjee, Martin Chmelik, Ufuk Topcu category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-29 summary:Partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) are widely used in probabilistic planning problems in which an agent interacts with an environment using noisy and imprecise sensors. We study a setting in which the sensors are only partially defined and the goal is to synthesize "weakest" additional sensors, such that in the resulting POMDP, there is a small-memory policy for the agent that almost-surely (with probability~1) satisfies a reachability objective. We show that the problem is NP-complete, and present a symbolic algorithm by encoding the problem into SAT instances. We illustrate trade-offs between the amount of memory of the policy and the number of additional sensors on a simple example. We have implemented our approach and consider three classical POMDP examples from the literature, and show that in all the examples the number of sensors can be significantly decreased (as compared to the existing solutions in the literature) without increasing the complexity of the policies. version:1
arxiv-1709-10275 | In-Field Peduncle Detection of Sweet Peppers for Robotic Harvesting: a comparative study | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10275 | id:1709.10275 author:Chris Lehnert, Chris McCool, Tristan Perez category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:Robotic harvesting of crops has the potential to disrupt current agricultural practices. A key element to enabling robotic harvesting is to safely remove the crop from the plant which often involves locating and cutting the peduncle, the part of the crop that attaches it to the main stem of the plant. In this paper we present a comparative study of two methods for performing peduncle detection. The first method is based on classic colour and geometric features obtained from the scene with a support vector machine classifier, referred to as PFH-SVM. The second method is an efficient deep neural network approach, MiniInception, that is able to be deployed on a robotic platform. In both cases we employ a secondary filtering process that enforces reasonable assumptions about the crop structure, such as the proximity of the peduncle to the crop. Our tests are conducted on Harvey, a sweet pepper harvesting robot, and is evaluated in a greenhouse using two varieties of sweet pepper, Ducati and Mercuno. We demonstrate that the MiniInception method achieves impressive accuracy and considerably outperforms the PFH-SVM approach achieving an F1 score of 0.564 and 0.302 respectively. version:1
arxiv-1709-10273 | Shaping in Practice: Training Wheels to Learn Fast Hopping Directly in Hardware | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10273 | id:1709.10273 author:Steve Heim, Felix Ruppert, Alborz A. Sarvestani, Alexander Spröwitz category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:Learning instead of designing robot controllers can greatly reduce engineering effort required, while also em- phasizing robustness. Despite considerable progress in simula- tion, applying learning directly in hardware is still challenging, in part due to the necessity to explore potentially unstable parameters. We explore the of concept shaping the reward landscape with training wheels; temporary modifications of the physical hardware that facilitate learning. We demonstrate the concept with a robot leg mounted on a boom learning to hop fast. This proof of concept embodies typical challenges such as instability and contact, while being simple enough to empirically map out and visualize the reward landscape. Based on our results we propose three criteria for designing effective training wheels for learning in robotics. version:1
arxiv-1709-10257 | Detection of social signals for recognizing engagement in human-robot interaction | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10257 | id:1709.10257 author:Divesh Lala, Koji Inoue, Pierrick Milhorat, Tatsuya Kawahara category:cs.HC cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:Detection of engagement during a conversation is an important function of human-robot interaction. The level of user engagement can influence the dialogue strategy of the robot. Our motivation in this work is to detect several behaviors which will be used as social signal inputs for a real-time engagement recognition model. These behaviors are nodding, laughter, verbal backchannels and eye gaze. We describe models of these behaviors which have been learned from a large corpus of human-robot interactions with the android robot ERICA. Input data to the models comes from a Kinect sensor and a microphone array. Using our engagement recognition model, we can achieve reasonable performance using the inputs from automatic social signal detection, compared to using manual annotation as input. version:1
arxiv-1709-10256 | Explainable Planning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10256 | id:1709.10256 author:Maria Fox, Derek Long, Daniele Magazzeni category:cs.AI I.2; I.2.9  published:2017-09-29 summary:As AI is increasingly being adopted into application solutions, the challenge of supporting interaction with humans is becoming more apparent. Partly this is to support integrated working styles, in which humans and intelligent systems cooperate in problem-solving, but also it is a necessary step in the process of building trust as humans migrate greater responsibility to such systems. The challenge is to find effective ways to communicate the foundations of AI-driven behaviour, when the algorithms that drive it are far from transparent to humans. In this paper we consider the opportunities that arise in AI planning, exploiting the model-based representations that form a familiar and common basis for communication with users, while acknowledging the gap between planning algorithms and human problem-solving. version:1
arxiv-1709-10237 | Beacon-referenced Mutual Pursuit in Three Dimensions | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10237 | id:1709.10237 author:Kevin S. Galloway, Biswadip Dey category:cs.SY cs.RO  published:2017-09-29 summary:Motivated by station-keeping applications in various unmanned settings, this paper introduces a steering control law for a pair of agents operating in the vicinity of a fixed beacon in a three-dimensional environment. This feedback law is a modification of the previously studied three-dimensional constant bearing (CB) pursuit law, in the sense that it incorporates an additional term to allocate attention to the beacon. We investigate the behavior of the closed-loop dynamics for a two agent mutual pursuit system in which each agent employs the beacon-referenced CB pursuit law with regards to the other agent and a stationary beacon. Under certain assumptions on the associated control parameters, we demonstrate that this problem admits circling equilibria wherein the agents move on circular orbits with a common radius, in planes perpendicular to a common axis passing through the beacon. As the common radius and distances from the beacon are determined by choice of parameters in the feedback law, this approach provides a means to engineer desired formations in a three-dimensional setting. version:1
arxiv-1709-10082 | Towards Optimally Decentralized Multi-Robot Collision Avoidance via Deep Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10082 | id:1709.10082 author:Pinxin Long, Tingxiang Fan, Xinyi Liao, Wenxi Liu, Hao Zhang, Jia Pan category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.LG cs.MA  published:2017-09-28 summary:Developing a safe and efficient collision avoidance policy for multiple robots is challenging in the decentralized scenarios where each robot generate its paths without observing other robots' states and intents. While other distributed multi-robot collision avoidance systems exist, they often require extracting agent-level features to plan a local collision-free action, which can be computationally prohibitive and not robust. More importantly, in practice the performance of these methods are much lower than their centralized counterparts. We present a decentralized sensor-level collision avoidance policy for multi-robot systems, which directly maps raw sensor measurements to an agent's steering commands in terms of movement velocity. As a first step toward reducing the performance gap between decentralized and centralized methods, we present a multi-scenario multi-stage training framework to find an optimal policy which is trained over a large number of robots on rich, complex environments simultaneously using a policy gradient based reinforcement learning algorithm. We validate the learned sensor-level collision avoidance policy in a variety of simulated scenarios with thorough performance evaluations and show that the final learned policy is able to find time efficient, collision-free paths for a large-scale robot system. We also demonstrate that the learned policy can be well generalized to new scenarios that do not appear in the entire training period, including navigating a heterogeneous group of robots and a large-scale scenario with 100 robots. Videos are available at https://sites.google.com/view/drlmaca version:2
arxiv-1709-10207 | Ground-Truth Adversarial Examples | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10207 | id:1709.10207 author:Nicholas Carlini, Guy Katz, Clark Barrett, David L. Dill category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CR  published:2017-09-29 summary:The ability to deploy neural networks in real-world, safety-critical systems is severely limited by the presence of adversarial examples: slightly perturbed inputs that are misclassified by the network. In recent years, several techniques have been proposed for training networks that are robust to such examples; and each time stronger attacks have been devised, demonstrating the shortcomings of existing defenses. This highlights a key difficulty in designing an effective defense: the inability to assess a network's robustness against future attacks. We propose to address this difficulty through formal verification techniques. We construct ground truths: adversarial examples with provably minimal perturbation. We demonstrate how ground truths can serve to assess the effectiveness of attack techniques, by comparing the adversarial examples produced to the ground truths; and also of defense techniques, by measuring the increase in distortion to ground truths in the hardened network versus the original. We use this technique to assess recently suggested attack and defense techniques. version:1
arxiv-1708-05866 | A Brief Survey of Deep Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.05866 | id:1708.05866 author:Kai Arulkumaran, Marc Peter Deisenroth, Miles Brundage, Anil Anthony Bharath category:cs.LG cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-08-19 summary:Deep reinforcement learning is poised to revolutionise the field of AI and represents a step towards building autonomous systems with a higher level understanding of the visual world. Currently, deep learning is enabling reinforcement learning to scale to problems that were previously intractable, such as learning to play video games directly from pixels. Deep reinforcement learning algorithms are also applied to robotics, allowing control policies for robots to be learned directly from camera inputs in the real world. In this survey, we begin with an introduction to the general field of reinforcement learning, then progress to the main streams of value-based and policy-based methods. Our survey will cover central algorithms in deep reinforcement learning, including the deep $Q$-network, trust region policy optimisation, and asynchronous advantage actor-critic. In parallel, we highlight the unique advantages of deep neural networks, focusing on visual understanding via reinforcement learning. To conclude, we describe several current areas of research within the field. version:2
arxiv-1709-10163 | Deep TAMER: Interactive Agent Shaping in High-Dimensional State Spaces | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10163 | id:1709.10163 author:Garrett Warnell, Nicholas Waytowich, Vernon Lawhern, Peter Stone category:cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-09-28 summary:While recent advances in deep reinforcement learning have allowed autonomous learning agents to succeed at a variety of complex tasks, existing algorithms generally require a lot of training data. One way to increase the speed at which agents are able to learn to perform tasks is by leveraging the input of human trainers. Although such input can take many forms, real-time, scalar-valued feedback is especially useful in situations where it proves difficult or impossible for humans to provide expert demonstrations. Previous approaches have shown the usefulness of human input provided in this fashion (e.g., the TAMER framework), but they have thus far not considered high-dimensional state spaces or employed the use of deep learning. In this paper, we do both: we propose Deep TAMER, an extension of the TAMER framework that leverages the representational power of deep neural networks in order to learn complex tasks in just a short amount of time with a human trainer. We demonstrate Deep TAMER's success by using it and just 15 minutes of human-provided feedback to train an agent that performs better than humans on the Atari game of Bowling - a task that has proven difficult for even state-of-the-art reinforcement learning methods. version:1
arxiv-1709-10157 | A Distributed Algorithm for Least Square Solutions of Linear Equations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10157 | id:1709.10157 author:Xuan Wang, Jingqiu Zhou, Shaoshuai Mou, Martin J. Corless category:cs.SY cs.DC math.OC  published:2017-09-28 summary:A distributed discrete-time algorithm is proposed for multi-agent networks to achieve a common least squares solution of a group of linear equations, in which each agent only knows some of the equations and is only able to receive information from its nearby neighbors. For fixed, connected, and undirected networks, the proposed discrete-time algorithm results in each agents solution estimate to converging exponentially fast to the same least squares solution. Moreover, the convergence does not require careful choices of time-varying small step sizes. version:1
arxiv-1709-10154 | Finite-Time Distributed Linear Equation Solver for Minimum $l_1$ Norm Solutions | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10154 | id:1709.10154 author:Jingqiu Zhou, Wang Xuan, Shaoshuai Mou, Brian. D. O. Anderson category:cs.SY cs.DC math.OC  published:2017-09-28 summary:This paper proposes distributed algorithms for multi-agent networks to achieve a solution in finite time to a linear equation $Ax=b$ where $A$ has full row rank, and with the minimum $l_1$-norm in the underdetermined case (where $A$ has more columns than rows). The underlying network is assumed to be undirected and fixed, and an analytical proof is provided for the proposed algorithm to drive all agents' individual states to converge to a common value, viz a solution of $Ax=b$, which is the minimum $l_1$-norm solution in the underdetermined case. Numerical simulations are also provided as validation of the proposed algorithms. version:1
arxiv-1709-10146 | Energy Constrained Depth First Search | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10146 | id:1709.10146 author:Shantanu Das, Dariusz Dereniowski, Przemysław Uznański category:cs.DS cs.DC cs.DM  published:2017-09-28 summary:Depth first search is a natural algorithmic technique for constructing a closed route that visits all vertices of a graph. This paper considers a variant of such search strategies for edge-weighted trees, where the length of each route is bounded by a positive integer $B$ (e.g. due to limited energy resources of the searcher). The objective is to cover all the edges of a tree $T$ using the minimum number of routes, each starting and ending at the root and each being of length at most $B$. To this end, we analyze the following natural greedy tree traversal process that is based on decomposing a depth first search traversal into a sequence of limited length routes. Given any arbitrary depth first search traversal $R$ of the tree $T$, we cover $R$ with routes $R_1,\ldots,R_l$, each of length at most $B$ such that: $R_i$ starts at the root, reaches directly the farthest point of $R$ visited by $R_{i-1}$, then $R_i$ continues along the path $R$ as far as possible, and finally $R_i$ returns to the root. We call the above algorithm piecemeal-DFS and we prove that it achieves the asymptotically minimal number of routes $l$, regardless of the choice of $R$. Our analysis also shows that the total length of the traversal (and thus the traversal time) of piecemeal-DFS is asymptotically minimum for any piecemeal exploration, again regardless of the choice of the original depth first search traversal $R$. The fact that $R$ can be chosen arbitrarily makes our approach suitable for construction of distributed and online algorithms, i.e., when the input tree $T$ is not known in advance, $R_i$'s can be constructed locally without any knowledge of the yet unvisited part of $T$. Moreover, our results show that depth first search is efficient for energy constrained exploration of trees, even though it is known that the same does not hold for the exploration of arbitrary graphs. version:1
arxiv-1709-08448 | Extracting Ontological Knowledge from Textual Descriptions | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08448 | id:1709.08448 author:Kevin Alex Mathews, P Sreenivasa Kumar category:cs.AI cs.CL  published:2017-09-25 summary:Authoring of OWL-DL ontologies is intellectually challenging and to make this process simpler, many systems accept natural language text as input. A text-based ontology authoring approach can be successful only when it is combined with an effective method for extracting ontological axioms from text. Extracting axioms from unrestricted English input is a substantially challenging task due to the richness of the language. Controlled natural languages (CNLs) have been proposed in this context and these tend to be highly restrictive. In this paper, we propose a new CNL called TEDEI (TExtual DEscription Identifier) whose grammar is inspired by the different ways OWL-DL constructs are expressed in English. We built a system that transforms TEDEI sentences into corresponding OWL-DL axioms. Now, ambiguity due to different possible lexicalizations of sentences and semantic ambiguity present in sentences are challenges in this context. We find that the best way to handle these challenges is to construct axioms corresponding to alternative formalizations of the sentence so that the end-user can make an appropriate choice. The output is compared against human-authored axioms and in substantial number of cases, human-authored axiom is indeed one of the alternatives given by the system. The proposed system substantially enhances the types of sentence structures that can be used for ontology authoring. version:3
arxiv-1709-10140 | Performance Evaluation of Container-based Virtualization for High Performance Computing Environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10140 | id:1709.10140 author:Carlos Arango, Rémy Dernat, John Sanabria category:cs.OS cs.DC cs.PF  published:2017-09-28 summary:Virtualization technologies have evolved along with the development of computational environments since virtualization offered needed features at that time such as isolation, accountability, resource allocation, resource fair sharing and so on. Novel processor technologies bring to commodity computers the possibility to emulate diverse environments where a wide range of computational scenarios can be run. Along with processors evolution, system developers have created different virtualization mechanisms where each new development enhanced the performance of previous virtualized environments. Recently, operating system-based virtualization technologies captured the attention of communities abroad (from industry to academy and research) because their important improvements on performance area. In this paper, the features of three container-based operating systems virtualization tools (LXC, Docker and Singularity) are presented. LXC, Docker, Singularity and bare metal are put under test through a customized single node HPL-Benchmark and a MPI-based application for the multi node testbed. Also the disk I/O performance, Memory (RAM) performance, Network bandwidth and GPU performance are tested for the COS technologies vs bare metal. Preliminary results and conclusions around them are presented and discussed. version:1
arxiv-1709-10119 | Distributed Join-the-Idle-Queue for Low Latency Cloud Services | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10119 | id:1709.10119 author:Chunpu Wang, Chen Feng, Julian Cheng category:cs.DC cs.IT cs.NI math.IT  published:2017-09-28 summary:Low latency is highly desirable for cloud services. To achieve low response time, stringent timing requirements are needed for task scheduling in a large-scale server farm spanning thousands of servers. In this paper, we conduct an in-depth analysis for distributed Join-the-Idle-Queue (JIQ), a promising new approximation of an idealized task-scheduling algorithm. In particular, we derive semi-closed form expressions for the delay performance of distributed JIQ, and we propose a new variant of distributed JIQ that offers clear advantages over alternative algorithms for large systems. version:1
arxiv-1709-10089 | Overcoming Exploration in Reinforcement Learning with Demonstrations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10089 | id:1709.10089 author:Ashvin Nair, Bob McGrew, Marcin Andrychowicz, Wojciech Zaremba, Pieter Abbeel category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.NE cs.RO  published:2017-09-28 summary:Exploration in environments with sparse rewards has been a persistent problem in reinforcement learning (RL). Many tasks are natural to specify with a sparse reward, and manually shaping a reward function can result in suboptimal performance. However, finding a non-zero reward is exponentially more difficult with increasing task horizon or action dimensionality. This puts many real-world tasks out of practical reach of RL methods. In this work, we use demonstrations to overcome the exploration problem and successfully learn to perform long-horizon, multi-step robotics tasks with continuous control such as stacking blocks with a robot arm. Our method, which builds on top of Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients and Hindsight Experience Replay, provides an order of magnitude of speedup over RL on simulated robotics tasks. It is simple to implement and makes only the additional assumption that we can collect a small set of demonstrations. Furthermore, our method is able to solve tasks not solvable by either RL or behavior cloning alone, and often ends up outperforming the demonstrator policy. version:1
arxiv-1709-10087 | Learning Complex Dexterous Manipulation with Deep Reinforcement Learning and Demonstrations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10087 | id:1709.10087 author:Aravind Rajeswaran, Vikash Kumar, Abhishek Gupta, John Schulman, Emanuel Todorov, Sergey Levine category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.RO  published:2017-09-28 summary:Dexterous multi-fingered hands are extremely versatile and provide a generic way to perform multiple tasks in human-centric environments. However, effectively controlling them remains challenging due to their high dimensionality and large number of potential contacts. Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) provides a model-agnostic approach to control complex dynamical systems, but has not been shown to scale to high-dimensional dexterous manipulation. Furthermore, deployment of DRL on physical systems remains challenging due to sample inefficiency. Thus, the success of DRL in robotics has thus far been limited to simpler manipulators and tasks. In this work, we show that model-free DRL with natural policy gradients can effectively scale up to complex manipulation tasks with a high-dimensional 24-DoF hand, and solve them from scratch in simulated experiments. Furthermore, with the use of a small number of human demonstrations, the sample complexity can be significantly reduced, and enable learning within the equivalent of a few hours of robot experience. We demonstrate successful policies for multiple complex tasks: object relocation, in-hand manipulation, tool use, and door opening. version:1
arxiv-1709-06456 | Balance control using both ZMP and COM height variations: A convex boundedness approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06456 | id:1709.06456 author:Stéphane Caron, Bastien Mallein category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-19 summary:Developments for 3D control of the center of mass (CoM) are currently located in two local minima: on the one hand, methods that allow CoM height variations but only work in the 2D sagittal plane; on the other hand, nonconvex centroidal models that are delicate to handle. This paper presents an alternative that controls the CoM in 3D by predictive control of a model with convex constraints. The key to this development is the notion of boundedness condition, which quantifies convexly the viability of CoM trajectories. version:3
arxiv-1709-10008 | Ascertaining Uncertainty for Efficient Exact Cache Analysis | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10008 | id:1709.10008 author:Valentin Touzeau, Claire Maiza, David Monniaux, Jan Reineke, Claire MaÂızamaÂıza category:cs.PL cs.AR cs.LO  published:2017-09-28 summary:Static cache analysis characterizes a program's cache behavior by determining in a sound but approximate manner which memory accesses result in cache hits and which result in cache misses. Such information is valuable in optimizing compilers, worst-case execution time analysis, and side-channel attack quantification and mitigation.Cache analysis is usually performed as a combination of "must" and "may" abstract interpretations, classifying instructions as either "always hit", "always miss", or "unknown". Instructions classified as "unknown" might result in a hit or a miss depending on program inputs or the initial cache state. It is equally possible that they do in fact always hit or always miss, but the cache analysis is too coarse to see it.Our approach to eliminate this uncertainty consists in (i) a novel abstract interpretation able to ascertain that a particular instruction may definitely cause a hit and a miss on different paths, and (ii) an exact analysis, removing all remaining uncertainty, based on model checking, using abstract-interpretation results to prune down the model for scalability.We evaluated our approach on a variety of examples; it notably improves precision upon classical abstract interpretation at reasonable cost. version:1
arxiv-1709-09994 | Premise Selection for Theorem Proving by Deep Graph Embedding | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09994 | id:1709.09994 author:Mingzhe Wang, Yihe Tang, Jian Wang, Jia Deng category:cs.AI cs.LG cs.LO  published:2017-09-28 summary:We propose a deep learning-based approach to the problem of premise selection: selecting mathematical statements relevant for proving a given conjecture. We represent a higher-order logic formula as a graph that is invariant to variable renaming but still fully preserves syntactic and semantic information. We then embed the graph into a vector via a novel embedding method that preserves the information of edge ordering. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on the HolStep dataset, improving the classification accuracy from 83% to 90.3%. version:1
arxiv-1709-09990 | Computing Treewidth on the GPU | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09990 | id:1709.09990 author:Tom C. van der Zanden, Hans L. Bodlaender category:cs.DC G.2.2  published:2017-09-28 summary:We present a parallel algorithm for computing the treewidth of a graph on a GPU. We implement this algorithm in OpenCL, and experimentally evaluate its performance. Our algorithm is based on an $O^*(2^{n})$-time algorithm that explores the elimination orderings of the graph using a Held-Karp like dynamic programming approach. We use Bloom filters to detect duplicate solutions. GPU programming presents unique challenges and constraints, such as constraints on the use of memory and the need to limit branch divergence. We experiment with various optimizations to see if it is possible to work around these issues. We achieve a very large speed up (up to $77\times$) compared to running the same algorithm on the CPU. version:1
arxiv-1709-08982 | User and Developer Interaction with Editable and Readable Ontologies | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08982 | id:1709.08982 author:Aisha Blfgeh, Phillip Lord category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-26 summary:The process of building ontologies is a difficult task that involves collaboration between ontology developers and domain experts and requires an ongoing interaction between them. This collaboration is made more difficult, because they tend to use different tool sets, which can hamper this interaction. In this paper, we propose to decrease this distance between domain experts and ontology developers by creating more readable forms of ontologies, and further to enable editing in normal office environments. Building on a programmatic ontology development environment, such as Tawny-OWL, we are now able to generate these readable/editable from the raw ontological source and its embedded comments. We have this translation to HTML for reading; this environment provides rich hyperlinking as well as active features such as hiding the source code in favour of comments. We are now working on translation to a Word document that also enables editing. Taken together this should provide a significant new route for collaboration between the ontologist and domain specialist. version:2
arxiv-1709-09972 | Deep Learning Assisted Heuristic Tree Search for the Container Pre-marshalling Problem | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09972 | id:1709.09972 author:André Hottung, Shunji Tanaka, Kevin Tierney category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-28 summary:One of the key challenges for operations researchers solving real-world problems is designing and implementing high-quality heuristics to guide their search procedures. In the past, machine learning techniques have failed to play a major role in operations research approaches, especially in terms of guiding branching and pruning decisions. We integrate deep neural networks into a heuristic tree search procedure to decide which branch to choose next and to estimate a bound for pruning the search tree of an optimization problem. We call our approach Deep Learning assisted heuristic Tree Search (DLTS) and apply it to a well-known problem from the container terminals literature, the container pre-marshalling problem (CPMP). Our approach is able to learn heuristics customized to the CPMP solely through analyzing the solutions to CPMP instances, and applies this knowledge within a heuristic tree search to produce the highest quality heuristic solutions to the CPMP to date. version:1
arxiv-1709-09921 | Tolerating Soft Errors in Processor Cores Using CLEAR (Cross-Layer Exploration for Architecting Resilience) | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09921 | id:1709.09921 author:Eric Cheng, Shahrzad Mirkhani, Lukasz G. Szafaryn, Chen-Yong Cher, Hyungmin Cho, Kevin Skadron, Mircea R. Stan, Klas Lilja, Jacob A. Abraham, Pradip Bose, Subhasish Mitra category:cs.AR  published:2017-09-28 summary:We present CLEAR (Cross-Layer Exploration for Architecting Resilience), a first of its kind framework which overcomes a major challenge in the design of digital systems that are resilient to reliability failures: achieve desired resilience targets at minimal costs (energy, power, execution time, area) by combining resilience techniques across various layers of the system stack (circuit, logic, architecture, software, algorithm). This is also referred to as cross-layer resilience. In this paper, we focus on radiation-induced soft errors in processor cores. We address both single-event upsets (SEUs) and single-event multiple upsets (SEMUs) in terrestrial environments. Our framework automatically and systematically explores the large space of comprehensive resilience techniques and their combinations across various layers of the system stack (586 cross-layer combinations in this paper), derives cost-effective solutions that achieve resilience targets at minimal costs, and provides guidelines for the design of new resilience techniques. Our results demonstrate that a carefully optimized combination of circuit-level hardening, logic-level parity checking, and micro-architectural recovery provides a highly cost-effective soft error resilience solution for general-purpose processor cores. For example, a 50x improvement in silent data corruption rate is achieved at only 2.1% energy cost for an out-of-order core (6.1% for an in-order core) with no speed impact. However, (application-aware) selective circuit-level hardening alone, guided by a thorough analysis of the effects of soft errors on application benchmarks, provides a cost-effective soft error resilience solution as well (with ~1% additional energy cost for a 50x improvement in silent data corruption rate). version:1
arxiv-1709-09905 | X-View: Graph-Based Semantic Multi-View Localization | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09905 | id:1709.09905 author:Abel Gawel, Carlo Del Don, Roland Siegwart, Juan Nieto, Cesar Cadena category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-09-28 summary:Global registration of multi-view robot data is a challenging task. Appearance-based global localization approaches often fail under drastic view-point changes, as representations have limited view-point invariance. This work is based on the idea that human-made environments contain rich semantics which can be used to disambiguate global localization. Here, we present X-View, a Multi-View Semantic Global Localization system. X-View leverages semantic graph descriptor matching for global localization, enabling localization under drastically different view-points. While the approach is general in terms of the semantic input data, we present and evaluate an implementation on visual data. We demonstrate the system in experiments on the publicly available SYNTHIA dataset, and a realistic urban dataset recorded with a simulator. On these data, our findings show that X-View is able to globally localize aerial-to-ground, and ground-to-ground robot data of drastically different view-points. Our approach achieves an accuracy of up to 85 % on global localizations in the multi-view case, while the benchmarked traditional appearance based method reaches up to 50 %. version:1
arxiv-1709-09899 | A method to segment maps from different modalities using free space layout - MAORIS : MAp Of RIpples Segmentation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09899 | id:1709.09899 author:Malcolm Mielle, Martin Magnusson, Achim J. Lilienthal category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-28 summary:How to divide floor plans or navigation maps into a semantic representation, such as rooms and corridors, is an important research question in fields such as human-robot interaction, place categorization, or semantic mapping. While most algorithms focus on segmenting robot built maps, those are not the only types of map a robot, or its user, can use. We have developed a method for segmenting maps from different modalities, focusing on robot built maps and hand-drawn sketch maps, and show better results than state of the art for both types. Our method segments the map by doing a convolution between the distance image of the map and a circular kernel, and grouping pixels of the same value. Segmentation is done by detecting ripple like patterns where pixel values vary quickly, and merging neighboring regions with similar values. We identify a flaw in segmentation evaluation metric used in recent works and propose a more consistent metric. We compare our results to ground-truth segmentations of maps from a publicly available dataset, on which we obtain a better Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) than state of the art with 0.98 compared to 0.85 for a recent Voronoi-based segmentation method and 0.78 for the DuDe segmentation method. We also provide a dataset of sketches of an indoor environment, with two possible sets of ground truth segmentations, on which our method obtains a MCC of 0.82 against 0.40 for the Voronoi-based segmentation method and 0.45 for DuDe. version:1
arxiv-1709-09882 | Are we Done with Object Recognition? The iCub robot's Perspective | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09882 | id:1709.09882 author:Giulia Pasquale, Carlo Ciliberto, Francesca Odone, Lorenzo Rosasco, Lorenzo Natale category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.CV cs.LG  published:2017-09-28 summary:We report on an extensive study of the current benefits and limitations of deep learning approaches to robot vision and introduce a novel dataset used for our investigation. To avoid the biases in currently available datasets, we consider a human-robot interaction setting to design a data-acquisition protocol for visual object recognition on the iCub humanoid robot. Considering the performance of off-the-shelf models trained on off-line large-scale image retrieval datasets, we show the necessity for knowledge transfer. Indeed, we analyze different ways in which this last step can be done, and identify the major bottlenecks in robotics scenarios. By studying both object categorization and identification tasks, we highlight the key differences between object recognition in robotics and in image retrieval tasks, for which the considered deep learning approaches have been originally designed. In a nutshell, our results confirm also in the considered setting the remarkable improvements yield by deep learning, while pointing to specific open challenges that need to be addressed for seamless deployment in robotics. version:1
arxiv-1709-09844 | Distance-based Confidence Score for Neural Network Classifiers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09844 | id:1709.09844 author:Amit Mandelbaum, Daphna Weinshall category:cs.AI cs.CV stat.ML  published:2017-09-28 summary:The reliable measurement of confidence in classifiers' predictions is very important for many applications and is, therefore, an important part of classifier design. Yet, although deep learning has received tremendous attention in recent years, not much progress has been made in quantifying the prediction confidence of neural network classifiers. Bayesian models offer a mathematically grounded framework to reason about model uncertainty, but usually come with prohibitive computational costs. In this paper we propose a simple, scalable method to achieve a reliable confidence score, based on the data embedding derived from the penultimate layer of the network. We investigate two ways to achieve desirable embeddings, by using either a distance-based loss or Adversarial Training. We then test the benefits of our method when used for classification error prediction, weighting an ensemble of classifiers, and novelty detection. In all tasks we show significant improvement over traditional, commonly used confidence scores. version:1
arxiv-1709-09839 | Heuristic Online Goal Recognition in Continuous Domains | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09839 | id:1709.09839 author:Mor Vered, Gal A. Kaminka category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-28 summary:Goal recognition is the problem of inferring the goal of an agent, based on its observed actions. An inspiring approach - plan recognition by planning (PRP) - uses off-the-shelf planners to dynamically generate plans for given goals, eliminating the need for the traditional plan library. However, existing PRP formulation is inherently inefficient in online recognition, and cannot be used with motion planners for continuous spaces. In this paper, we utilize a different PRP formulation which allows for online goal recognition, and for application in continuous spaces. We present an online recognition algorithm, where two heuristic decision points may be used to improve run-time significantly over existing work. We specify heuristics for continuous domains, prove guarantees on their use, and empirically evaluate the algorithm over hundreds of experiments in both a 3D navigational environment and a cooperative robotic team task. version:1
arxiv-1709-09816 | Edina: Building an Open Domain Socialbot with Self-dialogues | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09816 | id:1709.09816 author:Ben Krause, Marco Damonte, Mihai Dobre, Daniel Duma, Joachim Fainberg, Federico Fancellu, Emmanuel Kahembwe, Jianpeng Cheng, Bonnie Webber category:cs.CL cs.AI  published:2017-09-28 summary:We present Edina, the University of Edinburgh's social bot for the Amazon Alexa Prize competition. Edina is a conversational agent whose responses utilize data harvested from Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) through an innovative new technique we call self-dialogues. These are conversations in which a single AMT Worker plays both participants in a dialogue. Such dialogues are surprisingly natural, efficient to collect and reflective of relevant and/or trending topics. These self-dialogues provide training data for a generative neural network as well as a basis for soft rules used by a matching score component. Each match of a soft rule against a user utterance is associated with a confidence score which we show is strongly indicative of reply quality, allowing this component to self-censor and be effectively integrated with other components. Edina's full architecture features a rule-based system backing off to a matching score, backing off to a generative neural network. Our hybrid data-driven methodology thus addresses both coverage limitations of a strictly rule-based approach and the lack of guarantees of a strictly machine-learning approach. version:1
arxiv-1709-09785 | PPLS/D: Parallel Pareto Local Search based on Decomposition | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09785 | id:1709.09785 author:Jialong Shi, Qingfu Zhang category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-28 summary:Pareto Local Search (PLS) is a basic building block in many multiobjective metaheuristics. In this paper, Parallel Pareto Local Search based on Decomposition (PPLS/D) is proposed. PPLS/D decomposes the original search space into L subregions and executes L parallel search processes in these subregions simultaneously. Inside each subregion, the PPLS/D process is first guided by a scalar objective function to approach the Pareto set quickly, then it finds non-dominated solutions in this subregion. Our experimental studies on the multiobjective Unconstrained Binary Quadratic Programming problems (mUBQPs) with two to four objectives demonstrate the efficiency of PPLS/D. We investigate the behavior of PPLS/D to understand its working mechanism. Moreover, we propose a variant of PPLS/D called PPLS/D with Adaptive Expansion (PPLS/D-AE), in which each process can search other subregions after it converges in its own subregion. Its advantages and disadvantages have been studied. version:1
arxiv-1709-09741 | WHY: Natural Explanations from a Robot Navigator | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09741 | id:1709.09741 author:Raj Korpan, Susan L. Epstein, Anoop Aroor, Gil Dekel category:cs.AI cs.CL cs.HC cs.RO  published:2017-09-27 summary:Effective collaboration between a robot and a person requires natural communication. When a robot travels with a human companion, the robot should be able to explain its navigation behavior in natural language. This paper explains how a cognitively-based, autonomous robot navigation system produces informative, intuitive explanations for its decisions. Language generation here is based upon the robot's commonsense, its qualitative reasoning, and its learned spatial model. This approach produces natural explanations in real time for a robot as it navigates in a large, complex indoor environment. version:1
arxiv-1709-09735 | Deep Haptic Model Predictive Control for Robot-Assisted Dressing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09735 | id:1709.09735 author:Zackory Erickson, Henry M. Clever, Greg Turk, C. Karen Liu, Charles C. Kemp category:cs.RO cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-09-27 summary:Robot-assisted dressing offers an opportunity to benefit the lives of many people with disabilities, such as some older adults. However, robots currently lack common sense about the physical implications of their actions on people. The physical implications of dressing are complicated by non-rigid garments, which can result in a robot indirectly applying high forces to a person's body. We present a deep recurrent model that, when given a proposed action by the robot, predicts the forces a garment will apply to a person's body. We also show that a robot can provide better dressing assistance by using this model with model predictive control. The predictions made by our model only use haptic and kinematic observations from the robot's end effector, which are readily attainable. Collecting training data from real world physical human-robot interaction can be time consuming, costly, and put people at risk. Instead, we train our predictive model using data collected in an entirely self-supervised fashion from a physics-based simulation. We evaluated our approach with a PR2 robot that attempted to pull a hospital gown onto the arms of 10 human participants. With a 0.2s prediction horizon, our controller succeeded at high rates and lowered applied force while navigating the garment around a persons fist and elbow without getting caught. Shorter prediction horizons resulted in significantly reduced performance with the sleeve catching on the participants' fists and elbows, demonstrating the value of our model's predictions. These behaviors of mitigating catches emerged from our deep predictive model and the controller objective function, which primarily penalizes high forces. version:1
arxiv-1709-03528 | GIANT: Globally Improved Approximate Newton Method for Distributed Optimization | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.03528 | id:1709.03528 author:Shusen Wang, Farbod Roosta-Khorasani, Peng Xu, Michael W. Mahoney category:cs.LG cs.DC math.OC stat.ML  published:2017-09-11 summary:For distributed computing environments, we consider the canonical machine learning problem of empirical risk minimization (ERM) with quadratic regularization, and we propose a distributed and communication-efficient Newton-type optimization method. At every iteration, each worker locally finds an Approximate NewTon (ANT) direction, and then it sends this direction to the main driver. The driver, then, averages all the ANT directions received from workers to form a Globally Improved ANT (GIANT) direction. GIANT naturally exploits the trade-offs between local computations and global communications in that more local computations result in fewer overall rounds of communications. GIANT is highly communication efficient in that, for $d$-dimensional data uniformly distributed across $m$ workers, it has $4$ or $6$ rounds of communication and $O (d \log m)$ communication complexity per iteration. Theoretically, we show that GIANT's convergence rate is faster than first-order methods and existing distributed Newton-type methods. From a practical point-of-view, a highly beneficial feature of GIANT is that it has only one tuning parameter---the iterations of the local solver for computing an ANT direction. This is indeed in sharp contrast with many existing distributed Newton-type methods, as well as popular first-order methods, which have several tuning parameters, and whose performance can be greatly affected by the specific choices of such parameters. In this light, we empirically demonstrate the superior performance of GIANT compared with other competing methods. version:2
arxiv-1708-00352 | Implementing an Edge-Fog-Cloud architecture for stream data management | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.00352 | id:1708.00352 author:Lilian Hernandez, Hung Cao, Monica Wachowicz category:cs.DC cs.CY cs.NI  published:2017-08-01 summary:The Internet of Moving Things (IoMT) requires support for a data life cycle process ranging from sorting, cleaning and monitoring data streams to more complex tasks such as querying, aggregation, and analytics. Current solutions for stream data management in IoMT have been focused on partial aspects of a data life cycle process, with special emphasis on sensor networks. This paper aims to address this problem by developing streaming data life cycle process that incorporates an edge/fog/cloud architecture that is needed for handling heterogeneous, streaming and geographically-dispersed IoMT devices. We propose a 3-tier architecture to support an instant intra-layer communication that establishes a stream data flow in real-time to respond to immediate data life cycle tasks in the system. Communication and process are thus the defining factors in the design of our stream data management solution for IoMT. We describe and evaluate our prototype implementation using real-time transit data feeds. Preliminary results are showing the advantages of running data life cycle tasks for reducing the volume of data streams that are redundant and should not be transported to the cloud. version:2
arxiv-1709-09614 | Providing Privacy, Safety, and Security in IoT-Based Transactive Energy Systems using Distributed Ledgers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09614 | id:1709.09614 author:Aron Laszka, Abhishek Dubey, Michael Walker, Douglas Schmidt category:cs.DC cs.CR  published:2017-09-27 summary:Power grids are undergoing major changes due to rapid growth in renewable energy resources and improvements in battery technology. While these changes enhance sustainability and efficiency, they also create significant management challenges as the complexity of power systems increases. To tackle these challenges, decentralized Internet-of-Things (IoT) solutions are emerging, which arrange local communities into transactive microgrids. Within a transactive microgrid, "prosumers" (i.e., consumers with energy generation and storage capabilities) can trade energy with each other, thereby smoothing the load on the main grid using local supply. It is hard, however, to provide security, safety, and privacy in a decentralized and transactive energy system. On the one hand, prosumers' personal information must be protected from their trade partners and the system operator. On the other hand, the system must be protected from careless or malicious trading, which could destabilize the entire grid. This paper describes Privacy-preserving Energy Transactions (PETra), which is a secure and safe solution for transactive microgrids that enables consumers to trade energy without sacrificing their privacy. PETra builds on distributed ledgers, such as blockchains, and provides anonymity for communication, bidding, and trading. version:1
arxiv-1709-09611 | A Policy Search Method For Temporal Logic Specified Reinforcement Learning Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09611 | id:1709.09611 author:Xiao Li, Yao Ma, Calin Belta category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-27 summary:Reward engineering is an important aspect of reinforcement learning. Whether or not the user's intentions can be correctly encapsulated in the reward function can significantly impact the learning outcome. Current methods rely on manually crafted reward functions that often require parameter tuning to obtain the desired behavior. This operation can be expensive when exploration requires systems to interact with the physical world. In this paper, we explore the use of temporal logic (TL) to specify tasks in reinforcement learning. TL formula can be translated to a real-valued function that measures its level of satisfaction against a trajectory. We take advantage of this function and propose temporal logic policy search (TLPS), a model-free learning technique that finds a policy that satisfies the TL specification. A set of simulated experiments are conducted to evaluate the proposed approach. version:1
arxiv-1709-09601 | On the Design of Communication and Transaction Anonymity in Blockchain-Based Transactive Microgrids | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09601 | id:1709.09601 author:Jonatan Bergquist, Aron Laszka, Monika Sturm amd Abhishek Dubey category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-27 summary:Transactive microgrids are emerging as a transformative solution for the problems faced by distribution system operators due to an increase in the use of distributed energy resources and a rapid acceleration in renewable energy generation, such as wind and solar power. Distributed ledgers have recently found widespread interest in this domain due to their ability to provide transactional integrity across decentralized computing nodes. However, the existing state of the art has not focused on the privacy preservation requirement of these energy systems -- the transaction level data can provide much greater insights into a prosumer's behavior compared to smart meter data. There are specific safety requirements in transactive microgrids to ensure the stability of the grid and to control the load. To fulfil these requirements, the distribution system operator needs transaction information from the grid, which poses a further challenge to the privacy-goals. This problem is made worse by requirement for off-blockchain communication in these networks. In this paper, we extend a recently developed trading workflow called PETra and describe our solution for communication and transactional anonymity. version:1
arxiv-1709-09597 | Privacy-Preserving Platform for Transactive Energy Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09597 | id:1709.09597 author:Karla Kvaternik, Aron Laszka, Michael Walker, Douglas Schmidt, Monika Sturm, Martin lehofer, Abhishek Dubey category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-27 summary:Transactive energy systems (TES) are emerging as a transformative solution for the problems faced by distribution system operators due to an increase in the use of distributed energy resources and a rapid acceleration in renewable energy generation. These, on one hand, pose a decentralized power system controls problem, requiring strategic microgrid control to maintain stability for the community and for the utility. On the other hand, they require robust financial markets operating on distributed software platforms that preserve privacy. In this paper, we describe the implementation of a novel, blockchain-based transactive energy system. We outline the key requirements and motivation of this platform, describe the lessons learned, and provide a description of key architectural components of this system. version:1
arxiv-1709-09585 | DeepTransport: Learning Spatial-Temporal Dependency for Traffic Condition Forecasting | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09585 | id:1709.09585 author:Xingyi Cheng, Ruiqing Zhang, Jie Zhou, Wei Xu category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-27 summary:Predicting traffic conditions has been recently explored as a way to relieve traffic congestion. Several pioneering approaches have been proposed based on traffic observations of the target location as well as its adjacent regions, but they obtain somewhat limited accuracy due to lack of mining road topology. To address the effect attenuation problem, we propose to take account of the traffic of surrounding locations(wider than adjacent range). We propose an end-to-end framework called DeepTransport, in which Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) are utilized to obtain spatial-temporal traffic information within a transport network topology. In addition, attention mechanism is introduced to align spatial and temporal information. Moreover, we constructed and released a real-world large traffic condition dataset with 5-minute resolution. Our experiments on this dataset demonstrate our method captures the complex relationship in temporal and spatial domain. It significantly outperforms traditional statistical methods and a state-of-the-art deep learning method. version:1
arxiv-1709-09569 | Traffic Optimization For a Mixture of Self-interested and Compliant Agents | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09569 | id:1709.09569 author:Guni Sharon, Michael Albert, Tarun Rambha, Stephen Boyles, Peter Stone category:cs.MA cs.AI  published:2017-09-27 summary:This paper focuses on two commonly used path assignment policies for agents traversing a congested network: self-interested routing, and system-optimum routing. In the self-interested routing policy each agent selects a path that optimizes its own utility, while the system-optimum routing agents are assigned paths with the goal of maximizing system performance. This paper considers a scenario where a centralized network manager wishes to optimize utilities over all agents, i.e., implement a system-optimum routing policy. In many real-life scenarios, however, the system manager is unable to influence the route assignment of all agents due to limited influence on route choice decisions. Motivated by such scenarios, a computationally tractable method is presented that computes the minimal amount of agents that the system manager needs to influence (compliant agents) in order to achieve system optimal performance. Moreover, this methodology can also determine whether a given set of compliant agents is sufficient to achieve system optimum and compute the optimal route assignment for the compliant agents to do so. Experimental results are presented showing that in several large-scale, realistic traffic networks optimal flow can be achieved with as low as 13% of the agent being compliant and up to 54%. version:1
arxiv-1709-09527 | Introducing machine learning for power system operation support | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09527 | id:1709.09527 author:Benjamin Donnot, Isabelle Guyon, Marc Schoenauer, Patrick Panciatici, Antoine Marot category:stat.ML cs.AI  published:2017-09-27 summary:We address the problem of assisting human dispatchers in operating power grids in today's changing context using machine learning, with theaim of increasing security and reducing costs. Power networks are highly regulated systems, which at all times must meet varying demands of electricity with a complex production system, including conventional power plants, less predictable renewable energies (such as wind or solar power), and the possibility of buying/selling electricity on the international market with more and more actors involved at a Europeanscale. This problem is becoming ever more challenging in an aging network infrastructure. One of the primary goals of dispatchers is to protect equipment (e.g. avoid that transmission lines overheat) with few degrees of freedom: we are considering in this paper solely modifications in network topology, i.e. re-configuring the way in which lines, transformers, productions and loads are connected in sub-stations. Using years of historical data collected by the French Transmission Service Operator (TSO) "R\'eseau de Transport d'Electricit\'e" (RTE), we develop novel machine learning techniques (drawing on "deep learning") to mimic human decisions to devise "remedial actions" to prevent any line to violate power flow limits (so-called "thermal limits"). The proposed technique is hybrid. It does not rely purely on machine learning: every action will be tested with actual simulators before being proposed to the dispatchers or implemented on the grid. version:1
arxiv-1708-04806 | New Ideas for Brain Modelling 4 | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.04806 | id:1708.04806 author:Kieran Greer category:cs.AI  published:2017-08-16 summary:This paper continues the research that considers a new cognitive model. In particular, it considers the neural binding structure of an earlier paper. To help with this, the paper describes some new methods in the areas of image processing and high-level behaviour simulation. The work is all based on earlier research by the author and the new additions are intended to fit in with the overall design. For image processing, a grid-like structure is used with 'full linking'. Each cell in the classifier grid stores a list of all other cells it gets associated with and this is used as the learned image that new input is compared to. For the behaviour metric, a new prediction equation is suggested, as part of a simulation, that uses feedback and history to dynamically determine its course of action. While the new methods are from widely different topics, both can be compared with the binary-analog type of interface that is the main focus of the paper. It is suggested that the simplest of linking between a tree and ensemble can explain neural binding and variable signal strengths. version:2
arxiv-1709-09480 | A Benchmark Environment Motivated by Industrial Control Problems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09480 | id:1709.09480 author:Daniel Hein, Stefan Depeweg, Michel Tokic, Steffen Udluft, Alexander Hentschel, Thomas A. Runkler, Volkmar Sterzing category:cs.AI cs.LG cs.SY  published:2017-09-27 summary:In the research area of reinforcement learning (RL), frequently novel and promising methods are developed and introduced to the RL community. However, although many researchers are keen to apply their methods on real-world problems, implementing such methods in real industry environments often is a frustrating and tedious process. Generally, academic research groups have only limited access to real industrial data and applications. For this reason, new methods are usually developed, evaluated and compared by using artificial software benchmarks. On one hand, these benchmarks are designed to provide interpretable RL training scenarios and detailed insight into the learning process of the method on hand. On the other hand, they usually do not share much similarity with industrial real-world applications. For this reason we used our industry experience to design a benchmark which bridges the gap between freely available, documented, and motivated artificial benchmarks and properties of real industrial problems. The resulting industrial benchmark (IB) has been made publicly available to the RL community by publishing its Java and Python code, including an OpenAI Gym wrapper, on Github. In this paper we motivate and describe in detail the IB's dynamics and identify prototypic experimental settings that capture common situations in real-world industry control problems. version:1
arxiv-1603-01486 | Distributed $(Δ+1)$-Coloring in Sublogarithmic Rounds | http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01486 | id:1603.01486 author:David G. Harris, Johannes Schneider, Hsin-Hao Su category:cs.DS cs.DC F.2.2  published:2016-03-04 summary:We give a new randomized distributed algorithm for $(\Delta+1)$-coloring in the LOCAL model, running in $O(\sqrt{\log \Delta})+ 2^{O(\sqrt{\log \log n})}$ rounds in a graph of maximum degree~$\Delta$. This implies that the $(\Delta+1)$-coloring problem is easier than the maximal independent set problem and the maximal matching problem, due to their lower bounds of $\Omega \left( \min \left( \sqrt{\frac{\log n}{\log \log n}}, \frac{\log \Delta}{\log \log \Delta} \right) \right)$ by Kuhn, Moscibroda, and Wattenhofer [PODC'04]. Our algorithm also extends to list-coloring where the palette of each node contains $\Delta+1$ colors. We extend the set of distributed symmetry-breaking techniques by performing a decomposition of graphs into dense and sparse parts. version:2
arxiv-1709-09452 | Instrument Orientation-Based Metrics for Surgical Skill Evaluation in Robot-Assisted and Open Needle Driving | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09452 | id:1709.09452 author:Yarden Sharon, Thomas Sean Lendvay, Ilana Nisky category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-27 summary:The technical skill of surgeons directly impacts patient outcomes. Advanced tracking systems enable the development of objective motion-based metrics for skill evaluation, but these metrics are not sufficient to evaluate the performance in complex surgical tasks. In this study, we developed metrics for surgical skill evaluation that are based on the orientation of the surgical instruments. Experienced robotic surgeons and novice users performed teleoperated (using the da Vinci Research Kit) and open needle-driving. Task time and the rate of orientation change successfully distinguished between experienced surgeons and novice users. Path length and the normalized angular displacement allowed for a good separation only in part of the experiment. Our new promising metrics for surgical skill evaluation captured technical aspects that are taught during surgeons' training. They provide complementing evaluation to those of classical metrics. Orientation-based metrics add value to skill assessment and may be an adjunct to classic objective metrics providing more granular discrimination of skills. version:1
arxiv-1709-09450 | A Literature Based Approach to Define the Scope of Biomedical Ontologies: A Case Study on a Rehabilitation Therapy Ontology | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09450 | id:1709.09450 author:Mohammad K. Halawani, Rob Forsyth, Phillip Lord category:cs.IR cs.AI cs.DL  published:2017-09-27 summary:In this article, we investigate our early attempts at building an ontology describing rehabilitation therapies following brain injury. These therapies are wide-ranging, involving interventions of many different kinds. As a result, these therapies are hard to describe. As well as restricting actual practice, this is also a major impediment to evidence-based medicine as it is hard to meaningfully compare two treatment plans. Ontology development requires significant effort from both ontologists and domain experts. Knowledge elicited from domain experts forms the scope of the ontology. The process of knowledge elicitation is expensive, consumes experts' time and might have biases depending on the selection of the experts. Various methodologies and techniques exist for enabling this knowledge elicitation, including community groups and open development practices. A related problem is that of defining scope. By defining the scope, we can decide whether a concept (i.e. term) should be represented in the ontology. This is the opposite of knowledge elicitation, in the sense that it defines what should not be in the ontology. This can be addressed by pre-defining a set of competency questions. These approaches are, however, expensive and time-consuming. Here, we describe our work toward an alternative approach, bootstrapping the ontology from an initially small corpus of literature that will define the scope of the ontology, expanding this to a set covering the domain, then using information extraction to define an initial terminology to provide the basis and the competencies for the ontology. Here, we discuss four approaches to building a suitable corpus that is both sufficiently covering and precise. version:1
arxiv-1709-09433 | Scene learning, recognition and similarity detection in a fuzzy ontology via human examples | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09433 | id:1709.09433 author:Luca Buoncompagni, Fulvio Mastrogiovanni, Alessandro Saffiotti category:cs.AI 68T30  published:2017-09-27 summary:This paper introduces a Fuzzy Logic framework for scene learning, recognition and similarity detection, where scenes are taught via human examples. The framework allows a robot to: (i) deal with the intrinsic vagueness associated with determining spatial relations among objects; (ii) infer similarities and dissimilarities in a set of scenes, and represent them in a hierarchical structure represented in a Fuzzy ontology. In this paper, we briefly formalize our approach and we provide a few use cases by way of illustration. Nevertheless, we discuss how the framework can be used in real-world scenarios. version:1
arxiv-1709-09393 | Slim-DP: A Light Communication Data Parallelism for DNN | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09393 | id:1709.09393 author:Shizhao Sun, Wei Chen, Jiang Bian, Xiaoguang Liu, Tie-Yan Liu category:cs.DC cs.LG  published:2017-09-27 summary:Data parallelism has emerged as a necessary technique to accelerate the training of deep neural networks (DNN). In a typical data parallelism approach, the local workers push the latest updates of all the parameters to the parameter server and pull all merged parameters back periodically. However, with the increasing size of DNN models and the large number of workers in practice, this typical data parallelism cannot achieve satisfactory training acceleration, since it usually suffers from the heavy communication cost due to transferring huge amount of information between workers and the parameter server. In-depth understanding on DNN has revealed that it is usually highly redundant, that deleting a considerable proportion of the parameters will not significantly decline the model performance. This redundancy property exposes a great opportunity to reduce the communication cost by only transferring the information of those significant parameters during the parallel training. However, if we only transfer information of temporally significant parameters of the latest snapshot, we may miss the parameters that are insignificant now but have potential to become significant as the training process goes on. To this end, we design an Explore-Exploit framework to dynamically choose the subset to be communicated, which is comprised of the significant parameters in the latest snapshot together with a random explored set of other parameters. We propose to measure the significance of the parameter by the combination of its magnitude and gradient. Our experimental results demonstrate that our proposed Slim-DP can achieve better training acceleration than standard data parallelism and its communication-efficient version by saving communication time without loss of accuracy. version:1
arxiv-1709-09384 | Globally-Optimal Inlier Set Maximisation for Simultaneous Camera Pose and Feature Correspondence | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09384 | id:1709.09384 author:Dylan Campbell, Lars Petersson, Laurent Kneip, Hongdong Li category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-27 summary:Estimating the 6-DoF pose of a camera from a single image relative to a pre-computed 3D point-set is an important task for many computer vision applications. Perspective-n-Point (PnP) solvers are routinely used for camera pose estimation, provided that a good quality set of 2D-3D feature correspondences are known beforehand. However, finding optimal correspondences between 2D key-points and a 3D point-set is non-trivial, especially when only geometric (position) information is known. Existing approaches to the simultaneous pose and correspondence problem use local optimisation, and are therefore unlikely to find the optimal solution without a good pose initialisation, or introduce restrictive assumptions. Since a large proportion of outliers are common for this problem, we instead propose a globally-optimal inlier set cardinality maximisation approach which jointly estimates optimal camera pose and optimal correspondences. Our approach employs branch-and-bound to search the 6D space of camera poses, guaranteeing global optimality without requiring a pose prior. The geometry of SE(3) is used to find novel upper and lower bounds for the number of inliers and local optimisation is integrated to accelerate convergence. The evaluation empirically supports the optimality proof and shows that the method performs much more robustly than existing approaches, including on a large-scale outdoor data-set. version:1
arxiv-1709-09364 | Research on several key technologies in practical speech emotion recognition | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09364 | id:1709.09364 author:Chengwei Huang category:cs.SD cs.AI eess.AS  published:2017-09-27 summary:In this dissertation the practical speech emotion recognition technology is studied, including several cognitive related emotion types, namely fidgetiness, confidence and tiredness. The high quality of naturalistic emotional speech data is the basis of this research. The following techniques are used for inducing practical emotional speech: cognitive task, computer game, noise stimulation, sleep deprivation and movie clips. A practical speech emotion recognition system is studied based on Gaussian mixture model. A two-class classifier set is adopted for performance improvement under the small sample case. Considering the context information in continuous emotional speech, a Gaussian mixture model embedded with Markov networks is proposed. A further study is carried out for system robustness analysis. First, noise reduction algorithm based on auditory masking properties is fist introduced to the practical speech emotion recognition. Second, to deal with the complicated unknown emotion types under real situation, an emotion recognition method with rejection ability is proposed, which enhanced the system compatibility against unknown emotion samples. Third, coping with the difficulties brought by a large number of unknown speakers, an emotional feature normalization method based on speaker-sensitive feature clustering is proposed. Fourth, by adding the electrocardiogram channel, a bi-modal emotion recognition system based on speech signals and electrocardiogram signals is first introduced. The speech emotion recognition methods studied in this dissertation may be extended into the cross-language speech emotion recognition and the whispered speech emotion recognition. version:1
arxiv-1709-06808 | The Life in 1-Consensus | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06808 | id:1709.06808 author:Yehuda Afek, Eli Daian, Eli Gafni category:cs.DC C.1.4; C.2.4; E.1  published:2017-09-20 summary:This paper introduces the atomic Write and Read Next ($\text{WRN}_{k}$) deterministic shared memory object, that for any $k\ge3$, is stronger than read-write registers, but is unable to implement $2$-processor consensus. In particular, it refutes the conjecture claiming that every deterministic object of consensus number $1$ is computationally equivalent to read-write registers. version:2
arxiv-1709-05706 | Memory Augmented Control Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.05706 | id:1709.05706 author:Arbaaz Khan, Clark Zhang, Nikolay Atanasov, Konstantinos Karydis, Vijay Kumar, Daniel D. Lee category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-17 summary:Planning problems in partially observable environments cannot be solved directly with convolutional networks and require some form of memory. But, even memory networks with sophisticated addressing schemes are unable to learn intelligent reasoning satisfactorily due to the complexity of simultaneously learning to access memory and plan. To mitigate these challenges we introduce the Memory Augmented Control Network (MACN). The proposed network architecture consists of three main parts. The first part uses convolutions to extract features and the second part uses a neural network-based planning module to pre-plan in the environment. The third part uses a network controller that learns to store those specific instances of past information that are necessary for planning. The performance of the network is evaluated in discrete grid world environments for path planning in the presence of simple and complex obstacles. We show that our network learns to plan and can generalize to new environments. version:2
arxiv-1709-09317 | Touch-based object localization in cluttered environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09317 | id:1709.09317 author:Huy Nguyen, Quang-Cuong Pham category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-27 summary:Touch-based object localization is an important component of autonomous robotic systems that are to perform dexterous tasks in real-world environments. When the objects to locate are placed within clutters, this touch-based procedure tends to generate outlier measurements which, in turn, can lead to a significant loss in localization precision. Our first contribution is to address this problem by applying the RANdom SAmple Consensus (RANSAC) method to a Bayesian estimation framework. As RANSAC requires repeatedly applying the (computationally intensive) Bayesian updating step, it is crucial to improve that step in order to achieve practical running times. Our second contribution is therefore a fast method to find the most probable object face that corresponds to a given touch measurement, which yields a significant acceleration of the Bayesian updating step. Experiments show that our overall algorithm provides accurate localization in practical times, even when the measurements are corrupted by outliers. version:1
arxiv-1709-09312 | A Simple Reinforcement Learning Mechanism for Resource Allocation in LTE-A Networks with Markov Decision Process and Q-Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09312 | id:1709.09312 author:Einar Cesar Santos category:cs.AI cs.NI  published:2017-09-27 summary:Resource allocation is still a difficult issue to deal with in wireless networks. The unstable channel condition and traffic demand for Quality of Service (QoS) raise some barriers that interfere with the process. It is significant that an optimal policy takes into account some resources available to each traffic class while considering the spectral efficiency and other related channel issues. Reinforcement learning is a dynamic and effective method to support the accomplishment of resource allocation properly maintaining QoS levels for applications. The technique can track the system state as feedback to enhance the performance of a given task. Herein, it is proposed a simple reinforcement learning mechanism introduced in LTE-A networks and aimed to choose and limit the number of resources allocated for each traffic class, regarding the QoS Class Identifier (QCI), at each Transmission Time Interval (TTI) along the scheduling procedure. The proposed mechanism implements a Markov Decision Process (MDP) solved by the Q-Learning algorithm to find an optimal action-state decision policy. The results obtained from simulation exhibit good performance, especially for the real-time Video application. version:1
arxiv-1709-09276 | Early Turn-taking Prediction with Spiking Neural Networks for Human Robot Collaboration | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09276 | id:1709.09276 author:Tian Zhou, Juan P. Wachs category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:Turn-taking is essential to the structure of human teamwork. Humans are typically aware of team members' intention to keep or relinquish their turn before a turn switch, where the responsibility of working on a shared task is shifted. Future co-robots are also expected to provide such competence. To that end, this paper proposes the Cognitive Turn-taking Model (CTTM), which leverages cognitive models (i.e., Spiking Neural Network) to achieve early turn-taking prediction. The CTTM framework can process multimodal human communication cues (both implicit and explicit) and predict human turn-taking intentions in an early stage. The proposed framework is tested on a simulated surgical procedure, where a robotic scrub nurse predicts the surgeon's turn-taking intention. It was found that the proposed CTTM framework outperforms the state-of-the-art turn-taking prediction algorithms by a large margin. It also outperforms humans when presented with partial observations of communication cues (i.e., less than 40% of full actions). This early prediction capability enables robots to initiate turn-taking actions at an early stage, which facilitates collaboration and increases overall efficiency. version:1
arxiv-1709-09271 | Ontological Physics-based Motion Planning for Manipulation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09271 | id:1709.09271 author:Muhayyuddin, Aliakbar Akbari, Jan Rosell category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:Robotic manipulation involves actions where contacts occur between the robot and the objects. In this scope, the availability of physics-based engines allows motion planners to comprise dynamics between rigid bodies, which is necessary for planning this type of actions. However, physics-based motion planning is computationally intensive due to the high dimensionality of the state space and the need to work with a low integration step to find accurate solutions. On the other hand, manipulation actions change the environment and conditions further actions and motions. To cope with this issue, the representation of manipulation actions using ontologies enables a semantic-based inference process that alleviates the computational cost of motion planning. This paper proposes a manipulation planning framework where physics-based motion planning is enhanced with ontological knowledge representation and reasoning. The proposal has been implemented and is illustrated and validated with a simple example. Its use in grasping tasks in cluttered environments is currently under development. version:1
arxiv-1709-09662 | Image Space Potential Fields: Constant Size Environment Representation for Vision-based Subsumption Control Architectures | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09662 | id:1709.09662 author:Jeffrey Kane Johnson category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:This technical report presents an environment representation for use in vision-based navigation. The representation has two useful properties: 1) it has constant size, which can enable strong run-time guarantees to be made for control algorithms using it, and 2) it is structurally similar to a camera image space, which effectively allows control to operate in the sensor space rather than employing difficult, and often inaccurate, projections into a structurally different control space (e.g. Euclidean). The presented representation is intended to form the basis of a vision-based subsumption control architecture. version:1
arxiv-1709-09269 | Early Prediction for Physical Human Robot Collaboration in the Operating Room | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09269 | id:1709.09269 author:Tian Zhou, Juan P. Wachs category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:To enable a natural and fluent human robot collaboration flow, it is critical for a robot to comprehend their human peers' on-going actions, predict their behaviors in the near future, and plan its actions correspondingly. Specifically, the capability of making early predictions is important, so that the robot can foresee the precise timing of a turn-taking event and start motion planning and execution early enough to smooth the turn-taking transition. Such proactive behavior would reduce human's waiting time, increase efficiency and enhance naturalness in collaborative task. To that end, this paper presents the design and implementation of an early turn-taking prediction algorithm, catered for physical human robot collaboration scenarios. Specifically, a Robotic Scrub Nurse (RSN) system which can comprehend surgeon's multimodal communication cues and perform turn-taking prediction is presented. The developed algorithm was tested on a collected data set of simulated surgical procedures in a surgeon-nurse tandem. The proposed turn-taking prediction algorithm is found to be significantly superior to its algorithmic counterparts, and is more accurate than human baseline when little partial input is given (less than 30% of full action). After observing more information, the algorithm can achieve comparable performances as humans with a F1 score of 0.90. version:1
arxiv-1709-09268 | FSL-BM: Fuzzy Supervised Learning with Binary Meta-Feature for Classification | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09268 | id:1709.09268 author:Kamran Kowsari, Nima Bari, Roman Vichr, Farhad A. Goodarzi category:cs.LG cs.AI  published:2017-09-26 summary:This paper introduces a novel real-time Fuzzy Supervised Learning with Binary Meta-Feature (FSL-BM) for big data classification task. The study of real-time algorithms addresses several major concerns, which are namely: accuracy, memory consumption, and ability to stretch assumptions and time complexity. Attaining a fast computational model providing fuzzy logic and supervised learning is one of the main challenges in the machine learning. In this research paper, we present FSL-BM algorithm as an efficient solution of supervised learning with fuzzy logic processing using binary meta-feature representation using Hamming Distance and Hash function to relax assumptions. While many studies focused on reducing time complexity and increasing accuracy during the last decade, the novel contribution of this proposed solution comes through integration of Hamming Distance, Hash function, binary meta-features, binary classification to provide real time supervised method. Hash Tables (HT) component gives a fast access to existing indices; and therefore, the generation of new indices in a constant time complexity, which supersedes existing fuzzy supervised algorithms with better or comparable results. To summarize, the main contribution of this technique for real-time Fuzzy Supervised Learning is to represent hypothesis through binary input as meta-feature space and creating the Fuzzy Supervised Hash table to train and validate model. version:1
arxiv-1709-09250 | Lexical Disambiguation in Natural Language Questions (NLQs) | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09250 | id:1709.09250 author:Omar Al-Harbi, Shaidah Jusoh, Norita Md Norwawi category:cs.CL cs.AI  published:2017-09-26 summary:Question processing is a fundamental step in a question answering (QA) application, and its quality impacts the performance of QA application. The major challenging issue in processing question is how to extract semantic of natural language questions (NLQs). A human language is ambiguous. Ambiguity may occur at two levels; lexical and syntactic. In this paper, we propose a new approach for resolving lexical ambiguity problem by integrating context knowledge and concepts knowledge of a domain, into shallow natural language processing (SNLP) techniques. Concepts knowledge is modeled using ontology, while context knowledge is obtained from WordNet, and it is determined based on neighborhood words in a question. The approach will be applied to a university QA system. version:1
arxiv-1709-09233 | Dose Prediction with U-net: A Feasibility Study for Predicting Dose Distributions from Contours using Deep Learning on Prostate IMRT Patients | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09233 | id:1709.09233 author:Dan Nguyen, Troy Long, Xun Jia, Weiguo Lu, Xuejun Gu, Zohaib Iqbal, Steve Jiang category:physics.med-ph cs.AI cs.CV cs.LG  published:2017-09-26 summary:With the advancement of treatment modalities in radiation therapy, outcomes haves greatly improved, but at the cost of increased treatment plan complexity and planning time. The accurate prediction of dose distributions would alleviate this issue by guiding clinical plan optimization to save time and maintain high quality plans. We have developed a novel application of the fully convolutional deep network model, U-net, for predicting dose from patient contours. We show that with this model, we are able to accurately predict the dose of prostate cancer patients, where the average dice similarity coefficient is well over 0.9 when comparing the predicted vs. true isodose volumes between 0% and 100% of the prescription dose. The average differences in mean and max dose for all structures were within 2.3% of the prescription dose. version:1
arxiv-1609-01567 | OpenCL/CUDA algorithms for parallel decoding of any irregular LDPC code using GPU | http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.01567 | id:1609.01567 author:Jan Broulim, Alexander Ayriyan, Vjaceslav Georgiev, Hovik Grigorian category:cs.IT cs.DC math.IT  published:2016-09-06 summary:The development of multicore architectures supporting parallel data processing has led to a paradigm shift, which affects communication systems significantly. This article provides a scalable parallel approach of an iterative LDPC decoder, presented in a tutorial-based style. It is suitable for decoding any irregular LDPC code without the limitation of the maximum node degree, and it includes a parallel calculation of the syndrome. This is the main difference from algorithms presented so far. The proposed approach can be implemented in applications supporting massive parallel computing, such as GPU or FPGA devices. The implementation of the LDPC decoder with the use the OpenCL and CUDA frameworks is discussed and the performance evaluation is given at the end of this contribution. version:2
arxiv-1708-04225 | Deep Object-Centric Representations for Generalizable Robot Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.04225 | id:1708.04225 author:Coline Devin, Pieter Abbeel, Trevor Darrell, Sergey Levine category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-08-14 summary:Robotic manipulation in complex open-world scenarios requires both reliable physical manipulation skills and effective and generalizable perception. In this paper, we propose a method where general purpose pretrained visual models serve as an object-centric prior for the perception system of a learned policy. We devise an object-level attentional mechanism that can be used to determine relevant objects from a few trajectories or demonstrations, and then immediately incorporate those objects into a learned policy. A task-independent meta-attention locates possible objects in the scene, and a task-specific attention identifies which objects are predictive of the trajectories. The scope of the task-specific attention is easily adjusted by showing demonstrations with distractor objects or with diverse relevant objects. Our results indicate that this approach exhibits good generalization across object instances using very few samples, and can be used to learn a variety of manipulation tasks using reinforcement learning. version:3
arxiv-1709-09131 | Automatic Error Analysis of Human Motor Performance for Interactive Coaching in Virtual Reality | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09131 | id:1709.09131 author:Felix Hülsmann, Stefan Kopp, Mario Botsch category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-26 summary:In the context of fitness coaching or for rehabilitation purposes, the motor actions of a human participant must be observed and analyzed for errors in order to provide effective feedback. This task is normally carried out by human coaches, and it needs to be solved automatically in technical applications that are to provide automatic coaching (e.g. training environments in VR). However, most coaching systems only provide coarse information on movement quality, such as a scalar value per body part that describes the overall deviation from the correct movement. Further, they are often limited to static body postures or rather simple movements of single body parts. While there are many approaches to distinguish between different types of movements (e.g., between walking and jumping), the detection of more subtle errors in a motor performance is less investigated. We propose a novel approach to classify errors in sports or rehabilitation exercises such that feedback can be delivered in a rapid and detailed manner: Homogeneous sub-sequences of exercises are first temporally aligned via Dynamic Time Warping. Next, we extract a feature vector from the aligned sequences, which serves as a basis for feature selection using Random Forests. The selected features are used as input for Support Vector Machines, which finally classify the movement errors. We compare our algorithm to a well established state-of-the-art approach in time series classification, 1-Nearest Neighbor combined with Dynamic Time Warping, and show our algorithm's superiority regarding classification quality as well as computational cost. version:1
arxiv-1709-07790 | A Petri Nets Model for Blockchain Analysis | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07790 | id:1709.07790 author:Andrea Pinna, Roberto Tonelli, Matteo Orrú, Michele Marchesi category:cs.CR cs.DC cs.SE  published:2017-09-22 summary:A Blockchain is a global shared infrastructure where cryptocurrency transactions among addresses are recorded, validated and made publicly available in a peer- to-peer network. To date the best known and important cryptocurrency is the bitcoin. In this paper we focus on this cryptocurrency and in particular on the modeling of the Bitcoin Blockchain by using the Petri Nets formalism. The proposed model allows us to quickly collect information about identities owning Bitcoin addresses and to recover measures and statistics on the Bitcoin network. By exploiting algebraic formalism, we reconstructed an Entities network associated to Blockchain transactions gathering together Bitcoin addresses into the single entity holding permits to manage Bitcoins held by those addresses. The model allows also to identify a set of behaviours typical of Bitcoin owners, like that of using an address only once, and to reconstruct chains for this behaviour together with the rate of firing. Our model is highly flexible and can easily be adapted to include different features of the Bitcoin crypto-currency system. version:2
arxiv-1709-09108 | Tensors Come of Age: Why the AI Revolution will help HPC | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09108 | id:1709.09108 author:John L. Gustafson, Lenore M. Mullin category:cs.AI cs.MS cs.PF  published:2017-09-26 summary:This article discusses how the automation of tensor algorithms, based on A Mathematics of Arrays and Psi Calculus, and a new way to represent numbers, Unum Arithmetic, enables mechanically provable, scalable, portable, and more numerically accurate software. version:1
arxiv-1709-09099 | PMV: Pre-partitioned Generalized Matrix-Vector Multiplication for Scalable Graph Mining | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09099 | id:1709.09099 author:Chiwan Park, Ha-Myung Park, Minji Yoon, U Kang category:cs.DC cs.DB cs.DS  published:2017-09-26 summary:How can we analyze enormous networks including the Web and social networks which have hundreds of billions of nodes and edges? Network analyses have been conducted by various graph mining methods including shortest path computation, PageRank, connected component computation, random walk with restart, etc. These graph mining methods can be expressed as generalized matrix-vector multiplication which consists of few operations inspired by typical matrix-vector multiplication. Recently, several graph processing systems based on matrix-vector multiplication or their own primitives have been proposed to deal with large graphs; however, they all have failed on Web-scale graphs due to insufficient memory space or the lack of consideration for I/O costs. In this paper, we propose PMV (Pre-partitioned generalized Matrix-Vector multiplication), a scalable distributed graph mining method based on generalized matrix-vector multiplication on distributed systems. PMV significantly decreases the communication cost, which is the main bottleneck of distributed systems, by partitioning the input graph in advance and judiciously applying execution strategies based on the density of the pre-partitioned sub-matrices. Experiments show that PMV succeeds in processing up to 16x larger graphs than existing distributed memory-based graph mining methods, and requires 9x less time than previous disk-based graph mining methods by reducing I/O costs significantly. version:1
arxiv-1709-09491 | Flexible Support for Fast Parallel Commutative Updates | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09491 | id:1709.09491 author:Vignesh Balaji, Dhruva Tirumala, Brandon Lucia category:cs.DC cs.AR  published:2017-09-26 summary:Privatizing data is a useful strategy for increasing parallelism in a shared memory multithreaded program. Independent cores can compute independently on duplicates of shared data, combining their results at the end of their computations. Conventional approaches to privatization, however, rely on explicit static or dynamic memory allocation for duplicated state, increasing memory footprint and contention for cache resources, especially in shared caches. In this work, we describe CCache, a system for on-demand privatization of data manipulated by commutative operations. CCache garners the benefits of privatization, without the increase in memory footprint or cache occupancy. Each core in CCache dynamically privatizes commutatively manipulated data, operating on a copy. Periodically or at the end of its computation, the core merges its value with the value resident in memory, and when all cores have merged, the in-memory copy contains the up-to-date value. We describe a low-complexity architectural implementation of CCache that extends a conventional multicore to support on-demand privatization without using additional memory for private copies. We evaluate CCache on several high-value applications, including random access key-value store, clustering, breadth first search and graph ranking, showing speedups upto 3.2X. version:1
arxiv-1709-08992 | Embodied Evolution in Collective Robotics: A Review | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08992 | id:1709.08992 author:Nicolas Bredeche, Evert Haasdijk, Abraham Prieto category:cs.NE cs.AI cs.MA cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:This paper provides an overview of evolutionary robotics techniques applied to on-line distributed evolution for robot collectives -- namely, embodied evolution. It provides a definition of embodied evolution as well as a thorough description of the underlying concepts and mechanisms. The paper also presents a comprehensive summary of research published in the field since its inception (1999-2017), providing various perspectives to identify the major trends. In particular, we identify a shift from considering embodied evolution as a parallel search method within small robot collectives (fewer than 10 robots) to embodied evolution as an on-line distributed learning method for designing collective behaviours in swarm-like collectives. The paper concludes with a discussion of applications and open questions, providing a milestone for past and an inspiration for future research. version:1
arxiv-1709-08945 | Gesture-based Human-robot Interaction for Field Programmable Autonomous Underwater Robots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08945 | id:1709.08945 author:Pei Xu category:cs.HC cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:The uncertainty and variability of underwater environment propose the request to control underwater robots in real time and dynamically, especially in the scenarios where human and robots need to work collaboratively in the field. However, the underwater environment imposes harsh restrictions on the application of typical control and communication methods. Considering that gestures are a natural and efficient interactive way for human, we, utilizing convolution neural network, implement a real-time gesture-based recognition system, who can recognize 50 kinds of gestures from images captured by one normal monocular camera, and apply this recognition system in human and underwater robot interaction. We design A Flexible and Extendable Interaction Scheme (AFEIS) through which underwater robots can be programmed in situ underwater by human operators using customized gesture-based sign language. This paper elaborates the design of gesture recognition system and AFEIS, and presents our field trial results when applying this system and scheme on underwater robots. version:1
arxiv-1709-08920 | SCARFF: a Scalable Framework for Streaming Credit Card Fraud Detection with Spark | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08920 | id:1709.08920 author:Fabrizio Carcillo, Andrea Dal Pozzolo, Yann-Aël Le Borgne, Olivier Caelen, Yannis Mazzer, Gianluca Bontempi category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-26 summary:The expansion of the electronic commerce, together with an increasing confidence of customers in electronic payments, makes of fraud detection a critical factor. Detecting frauds in (nearly) real time setting demands the design and the implementation of scalable learning techniques able to ingest and analyse massive amounts of streaming data. Recent advances in analytics and the availability of open source solutions for Big Data storage and processing open new perspectives to the fraud detection field. In this paper we present a SCAlable Real-time Fraud Finder (SCARFF) which integrates Big Data tools (Kafka, Spark and Cassandra) with a machine learning approach which deals with imbalance, nonstationarity and feedback latency. Experimental results on a massive dataset of real credit card transactions show that this framework is scalable, efficient and accurate over a big stream of transactions. version:1
arxiv-1709-08909 | On the Benefits of QoS-Differentiated Posted Pricing in Cloud Computing: An Analytical Model | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08909 | id:1709.08909 author:Xiaohu Wu, Francesco De Pellegrini category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-26 summary:When designing service and pricing models, an important goal is to both enable user-friendly and cost-effective access to services and achieve a high system's utilization. Such design could attract more users and improve the revenue. QoS-differentiated pricing represents an important direction to address the above design goal as illustrated by numerous studies in other fields such as Internet. In this paper, we propose the first analytical model of QoS-differentiated posted pricing in the context of cloud computing. In this model, a cloud provider offers a stable set of SLAs and their prices are also posted to users in advance, where higher QoSs are charged higher prices. As a result, users can directly choose their preferred SLA with a certain price, in contrast to many existing dynamic pricing mechanisms with the uncertain prices and availability of cloud resource. In order to maximizing the revenue of a cloud provider, the questions that arise here include: (1) setting the prices properly to direct users to the right SLAs best fitting their need, and, (2) given a fixed cloud capacity, determining how many servers should be assigned to each SLA and which users and how many of their jobs are admitted to be served. To this respect, we propose optimal schemes to jointly determine SLA-based prices and perform capacity planning. In spite of the usability of such a pricing model, simulations also show that it could improve the utilization of computing resource by up to eleven-fold increase, compared with the standard pay-as-you-go pricing model; furthermore, the revenue of a cloud provider could be improved by up to a five-fold increase. version:1
arxiv-1709-08902 | A New Cooperative Framework for Parallel Trajectory-Based Metaheuristics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08902 | id:1709.08902 author:Jialong Shi, Qingfu Zhang category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-26 summary:In this paper, we propose a framework for parallel trajectory-based metaheuristics. In our framework, multiple processes search the solution space concurrently and send their best found solutions to each other on a distributed topology. More importantly, instead of restarting from the received solutions or executing path-relinking on them (which are commonly seen in other parallel trajectory-based metaheuristics), each process in our framework continues searching from its current solution, but its search direction has bias toward the the received solutions. In such a way, historical information of each process is used efficiently. To illustrate the effectiveness of our framework, we design a parallel variant of Guided Local Search (GLS), a classical trajectory-based metaheuristic. Extensive experiments have been conducted on the Tianhe-2 supercomputer to test the performance of the designed parallel GLS algorithm. Based on the experimental results, we conclude that the proposed parallel framework is effective and comparable to other widely-used parallel frameworks. Our work represents a new direction to design parallel trajectory-based metaheuristics. version:1
arxiv-1709-08880 | An enhanced method to compute the similarity between concepts of ontology | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08880 | id:1709.08880 author:Noreddine Gherabi, Abdelhadi Daoui, Abderrahim Marzouk category:cs.DB cs.AI cs.IR  published:2017-09-26 summary:With the use of ontologies in several domains such as semantic web, information retrieval, artificial intelligence, the concept of similarity measuring has become a very important domain of research. Therefore, in the current paper, we propose our method of similarity measuring which uses the Dijkstra algorithm to define and compute the shortest path. Then, we use this one to compute the semantic distance between two concepts defined in the same hierarchy of ontology. Afterward, we base on this result to compute the semantic similarity. Finally, we present an experimental comparison between our method and other methods of similarity measuring. version:1
arxiv-1709-08878 | Generating Sentences by Editing Prototypes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08878 | id:1709.08878 author:Kelvin Guu, Tatsunori B. Hashimoto, Yonatan Oren, Percy Liang category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG cs.NE stat.ML  published:2017-09-26 summary:We propose a new generative model of sentences that first samples a prototype sentence from the training corpus and then edits it into a new sentence. Compared to traditional models that generate from scratch either left-to-right or by first sampling a latent sentence vector, our prototype-then-edit model improves perplexity on language modeling and generates higher quality outputs according to human evaluation. Furthermore, the model gives rise to a latent edit vector that captures interpretable semantics such as sentence similarity and sentence-level analogies. version:1
arxiv-1709-08872 | Learning to Label Affordances from Simulated and Real Data | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08872 | id:1709.08872 author:Timo Lüddecke, Florentin Wörgötter category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:An autonomous robot should be able to evaluate the affordances that are offered by a given situation. Here we address this problem by designing a system that can densely predict affordances given only a single 2D RGB image. This is achieved with a convolutional neural network (ResNet), which we combine with refinement modules recently proposed for addressing semantic image segmentation. We define a novel cost function, which is able to handle (potentially multiple) affordances of objects and their parts in a pixel-wise manner even in the case of incomplete data. We perform qualitative as well as quantitative evaluations with simulated and real data assessing 15 different affordances. In general, we find that affordances, which are well-enough represented in the training data, are correctly recognized with a substantial fraction of correctly assigned pixels. Furthermore, we show that our model outperforms several baselines. Hence, this method can give clear action guidelines for a robot. version:1
arxiv-1709-08850 | Active Learning amidst Logical Knowledge | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08850 | id:1709.08850 author:Emmanouil Antonios Platanios, Ashish Kapoor, Eric Horvitz category:cs.AI cs.LG cs.LO  published:2017-09-26 summary:Structured prediction is ubiquitous in applications of machine learning such as knowledge extraction and natural language processing. Structure often can be formulated in terms of logical constraints. We consider the question of how to perform efficient active learning in the presence of logical constraints among variables inferred by different classifiers. We propose several methods and provide theoretical results that demonstrate the inappropriateness of employing uncertainty guided sampling, a commonly used active learning method. Furthermore, experiments on ten different datasets demonstrate that the methods significantly outperform alternatives in practice. The results are of practical significance in situations where labeled data is scarce. version:1
arxiv-1709-08831 | UAV and Service Robot Coordination for Indoor Object Search Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08831 | id:1709.08831 author:Sandeep Konam, Stephanie Rosenthal, Manuela Veloso category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-09-26 summary:Our CoBot robots have successfully performed a variety of service tasks in our multi-building environment including accompanying people to meetings and delivering objects to offices due to its navigation and localization capabilities. However, they lack the capability to visually search over desks and other confined locations for an object of interest. Conversely, an inexpensive GPS-denied quadcopter platform such as the Parrot ARDrone 2.0 could perform this object search task if it had access to reasonable localization. In this paper, we propose the concept of coordination between CoBot and the Parrot ARDrone 2.0 to perform service-based object search tasks, in which CoBot localizes and navigates to the general search areas carrying the ARDrone and the ARDrone searches locally for objects. We propose a vision-based moving target navigation algorithm that enables the ARDrone to localize with respect to CoBot, search for objects, and return to the CoBot for future searches. We demonstrate our algorithm in indoor environments on several search trajectories. version:1
arxiv-1709-08826 | Sensing-Constrained LQG Control | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08826 | id:1709.08826 author:Vasileios Tzoumas, Luca Carlone, George J. Pappas, Ali Jadbabaie category:math.OC cs.RO cs.SY math.DS  published:2017-09-26 summary:Linear-Quadratic-Gaussian (LQG) control is concerned with the design of an optimal controller and estimator for linear Gaussian systems with imperfect state information. Standard LQG assumes the set of sensor measurements, to be fed to the estimator, to be given. However, in many problems, arising in networked systems and robotics, one may not be able to use all the available sensors, due to power or payload constraints, or may be interested in using the smallest subset of sensors that guarantees the attainment of a desired control goal. In this paper, we introduce the sensing-constrained LQG control problem, in which one has to jointly design sensing, estimation, and control, under given constraints on the resources spent for sensing. We focus on the realistic case in which the sensing strategy has to be selected among a finite set of possible sensing modalities. While the computation of the optimal sensing strategy is intractable, we present the first scalable algorithm that computes a near-optimal sensing strategy with provable sub-optimality guarantees. To this end, we show that a separation principle holds, which allows the design of sensing, estimation, and control policies in isolation. We conclude the paper by discussing two applications of sensing-constrained LQG control, namely, sensing-constrained formation control and resource-constrained robot navigation. version:1
arxiv-1709-08810 | Addressing Challenging Place Recognition Tasks using Generative Adversarial Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08810 | id:1709.08810 author:Yasir Latif, Ravi Garg, Michael Milford, Ian Reid category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:Place recognition is an essential component of any Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) system. Correct place recognition is a difficult perception task in cases where there is significant appearance change as the same place might look very different in the morning and at night or over different seasons. This work addresses place recognition using a two-step (generative and discriminative) approach. Using a pair of coupled Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), we show that it is possible to generate the appearance of one domain (such as summer) from another (such as winter) without needing image to image correspondences. We identify these relationships considering sets of images in the two domains without knowing the instance-to-instance correspondence. In the process, we learn meaningful feature spaces, the distances in which can be used for the task of place recognition. Experiments show that learned feature correspond to visual space and can be effectively used for place recognition across seasons. version:1
arxiv-1709-08800 | TuringMobile: A Turing Machine of Oblivious Mobile Robots with Limited Visibility and its Applications | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08800 | id:1709.08800 author:Giuseppe A. Di Luna, Paola Flocchini, Nicola Santoro, Giovanni Viglietta category:cs.DC cs.CG cs.RO  published:2017-09-26 summary:In this paper we investigate the computational power of a set of mobile robots with limited visibility. At each iteration, a robot takes a snapshot of its surroundings, uses the snapshot to compute a destination point, and it moves toward its destination. Each robot is punctiform and memoryless, it operates in $\mathbb{R}^m$, it has a local reference system independent of the other robots' ones, and is activated asynchronously by an adversarial scheduler. Moreover, robots are non-rigid, in that they may be stopped by the scheduler at each move before reaching their destination (but are guaranteed to travel at least a fixed unknown distance before being stopped). We show that despite these strong limitations, it is possible to arrange $3m+3k$ of these weak entities in $\mathbb{R}^m$ to simulate the behavior of a stronger robot that is rigid (i.e., it always reaches its destination) and is endowed with $k$ registers of persistent memory, each of which can store a real number. We call this arrangement a TuringMobile. In its simplest form, a TuringMobile consisting of only three robots can travel in the plane and store and update a single real number. We also prove that this task is impossible with fewer than three robots. Among the applications of the TuringMobile, we focused on Near-Gathering (all robots have to gather in a small-enough disk) and Pattern Formation (of which Gathering is a special case) with limited visibility. Interestingly, our investigation implies that both problems are solvable in Euclidean spaces of any dimension, even if the visibility graph of the robots is initially disconnected, provided that a small amount of these robots are arranged to form a TuringMobile. In the special case of the plane, a basic TuringMobile of only three robots is sufficient. version:1
arxiv-1709-08590 | Ensemble Classifier for Eye State Classification using EEG Signals | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08590 | id:1709.08590 author:Ali Al-Taei category:cs.AI cs.HC I.5; I.5.2; I.2.1  published:2017-09-25 summary:The growing importance and utilization of measuring brain waves (e.g. EEG signals of eye state) in brain-computer interface (BCI) applications highlighted the need for suitable classification methods. In this paper, a comparison between three of well-known classification methods (i.e. support vector machine (SVM), hidden Markov map (HMM), and radial basis function (RBF)) for EEG based eye state classification was achieved. Furthermore, a suggested method that is based on ensemble model was tested. The suggested (ensemble system) method based on a voting algorithm with two kernels: random forest (RF) and Kstar classification methods. The performance was tested using three measurement parameters: accuracy, mean absolute error (MAE), and confusion matrix. Results showed that the proposed method outperforms the other tested methods. For instance, the suggested method's performance was 97.27% accuracy and 0.13 MAE. version:2
arxiv-1708-05045 | Cross-lingual Entity Alignment via Joint Attribute-Preserving Embedding | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.05045 | id:1708.05045 author:Zequn Sun, Wei Hu, Chengkai Li category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.DB  published:2017-08-16 summary:Entity alignment is the task of finding entities in two knowledge bases (KBs) that represent the same real-world object. When facing KBs in different natural languages, conventional cross-lingual entity alignment methods rely on machine translation to eliminate the language barriers. These approaches often suffer from the uneven quality of translations between languages. While recent embedding-based techniques encode entities and relationships in KBs and do not need machine translation for cross-lingual entity alignment, a significant number of attributes remain largely unexplored. In this paper, we propose a joint attribute-preserving embedding model for cross-lingual entity alignment. It jointly embeds the structures of two KBs into a unified vector space and further refines it by leveraging attribute correlations in the KBs. Our experimental results on real-world datasets show that this approach significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art embedding approaches for cross-lingual entity alignment and could be complemented with methods based on machine translation. version:2
arxiv-1512-09228 | Efficient Construction of Simultaneous Deterministic Finite Automata on Multicores Using Rabin Fingerprints | http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.09228 | id:1512.09228 author:Minyoung Jung, Bernd Burgstaller, Johann Blieberger category:cs.DC  published:2015-12-31 summary:In this paper, we propose several optimizations for the SFA construction algorithm, which greatly reduce the in-memory footprint and the processing steps required to construct an SFA. We introduce fingerprints as a space- and time-efficient way to represent SFA states. To compute fingerprints, we apply the Barrett reduction algorithm and accelerate it using recent additions to the x86 instruction set architecture. We exploit fingerprints to introduce hashing for further optimizations. Our parallel SFA construction algorithm is nonblocking and utilizes instruction-level, data-level, and task-level parallelism of coarse-, medium- and fine-grained granularity. We adapt static workload distributions and align the SFA data-structures with the constraints of multicore memory hierarchies, to increase the locality of memory accesses and facilitate HW prefetching. We conduct experiments on the PROSITE protein database for FAs of up to 702 FA states to evaluate performance and effectiveness of our proposed optimizations. Evaluations have been conducted on a 4 CPU (64 cores) AMD Opteron 6378 system and a 2 CPU (28 cores, 2 hyperthreads per core) Intel Xeon E5-2697 v3 system. The observed speedups over the sequential baseline algorithm are up to 118541x on the AMD system and 2113968x on the Intel system. version:2
arxiv-1709-08767 | BOSS-LDG: A Novel Computational Framework that Brings Together Blue Waters, Open Science Grid, Shifter and the LIGO Data Grid to Accelerate Gravitational Wave Discovery | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08767 | id:1709.08767 author:E. A. Huerta, Roland Haas, Edgar Fajardo, Daniel S. Katz, Stuart Anderson, Peter Couvares, Josh Willis, Timothy Bouvet, Jeremy Enos, William T. C. Kramer, Hon Wai Leong, David Wheeler category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-26 summary:We present a novel computational framework that connects Blue Waters, the NSF-supported, leadership-class supercomputer operated by NCSA, to the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) Data Grid via Open Science Grid technology. To enable this computational infrastructure, we configured, for the first time, a LIGO Data Grid Tier-1 Center that can submit heterogeneous LIGO workflows using Open Science Grid facilities. In order to enable a seamless connection between the LIGO Data Grid and Blue Waters via Open Science Grid, we utilize Shifter to containerize LIGO's workflow software. This work represents the first time Open Science Grid, Shifter, and Blue Waters are unified to tackle a scientific problem and, in particular, it is the first time a framework of this nature is used in the context of large scale gravitational wave data analysis. This new framework has been used in the last several weeks of LIGO's second discovery campaign to run the most computationally demanding gravitational wave search workflows on Blue Waters, and accelerate discovery in the emergent field of gravitational wave astrophysics. We discuss the implications of this novel framework for a wider ecosystem of Higher Performance Computing users. version:1
arxiv-1709-08765 | Network Topology and Communication-Computation Tradeoffs in Decentralized Optimization | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08765 | id:1709.08765 author:Angelia Nedić, Alex Olshevsky, Michael G. Rabbat category:math.OC cs.DC cs.MA  published:2017-09-26 summary:In decentralized optimization, nodes cooperate to minimize an overall objective function that is the sum (or average) of per-node private objective functions. Algorithms interleave local computations with communication among all or a subset of the nodes. Motivated by a variety of applications---distributed estimation in sensor networks, fitting models to massive data sets, and distributed control of multi-robot systems, to name a few---significant advances have been made towards the development of robust, practical algorithms with theoretical performance guarantees. This paper presents an overview of recent work in this area. In general, rates of convergence depend not only on the number of nodes involved and the desired level of accuracy, but also on the structure and nature of the network over which nodes communicate (e.g., whether links are directed or undirected, static or time-varying). We survey the state-of-the-art algorithms and their analyses tailored to these different scenarios, highlighting the role of the network topology. version:1
arxiv-1709-07857 | Using Simulation and Domain Adaptation to Improve Efficiency of Deep Robotic Grasping | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07857 | id:1709.07857 author:Konstantinos Bousmalis, Alex Irpan, Paul Wohlhart, Yunfei Bai, Matthew Kelcey, Mrinal Kalakrishnan, Laura Downs, Julian Ibarz, Peter Pastor, Kurt Konolige, Sergey Levine, Vincent Vanhoucke category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-22 summary:Instrumenting and collecting annotated visual grasping datasets to train modern machine learning algorithms can be extremely time-consuming and expensive. An appealing alternative is to use off-the-shelf simulators to render synthetic data for which ground-truth annotations are generated automatically. Unfortunately, models trained purely on simulated data often fail to generalize to the real world. We study how randomized simulated environments and domain adaptation methods can be extended to train a grasping system to grasp novel objects from raw monocular RGB images. We extensively evaluate our approaches with a total of more than 25,000 physical test grasps, studying a range of simulation conditions and domain adaptation methods, including a novel extension of pixel-level domain adaptation that we term the GraspGAN. We show that, by using synthetic data and domain adaptation, we are able to reduce the number of real-world samples needed to achieve a given level of performance by up to 50 times, using only randomly generated simulated objects. We also show that by using only unlabeled real-world data and our GraspGAN methodology, we obtain real-world grasping performance without any real-world labels that is similar to that achieved with 939,777 labeled real-world samples. version:2
arxiv-1709-08693 | Can you fool AI with adversarial examples on a visual Turing test? | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08693 | id:1709.08693 author:Xiaojun Xu, Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, Anna Rohrbach, Trevor Darell, Dawn Song category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-25 summary:Deep learning has achieved impressive results in many areas of Computer Vision and Natural Language Pro- cessing. Among others, Visual Question Answering (VQA), also referred to a visual Turing test, is considered one of the most compelling problems, and recent deep learning models have reported significant progress in vision and language modeling. Although Artificial Intelligence (AI) is getting closer to passing the visual Turing test, at the same time the existence of adversarial examples to deep learning systems may hinder the practical application of such systems. In this work, we conduct the first extensive study on adversarial examples for VQA systems. In particular, we focus on generating targeted adversarial examples for a VQA system while the target is considered to be a question-answer pair. Our evaluation shows that the success rate of whether a targeted adversarial example can be generated is mostly dependent on the choice of the target question-answer pair, and less on the choice of images to which the question refers. We also report the language prior phenomenon of a VQA model, which can explain why targeted adversarial examples are hard to generate for some question-answer targets. We also demonstrate that a compositional VQA architecture is slightly more resilient to adversarial attacks than a non-compositional one. Our study sheds new light on how to build deep vision and language resilient models robust against adversarial examples. version:1
arxiv-1709-08685 | Data-Driven Approach to Simulating Realistic Human Joint Constraints | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08685 | id:1709.08685 author:Yifeng Jiang, C. Karen Liu category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-25 summary:Modeling realistic human joint limits is important for applications involving physical human-robot interaction. However, setting appropriate human joint limits is challenging because it is pose-dependent: the range of joint motion varies depending on the positions of other bones. The paper introduces a new technique to accurately simulate human joint limits in physics simulation. We propose to learn an implicit equation to represent the boundary of valid human joint configurations from real human data. The function in the implicit equation is represented by a fully connected neural network whose gradients can be efficiently computed via back-propagation. Using gradients, we can efficiently enforce realistic human joint limits through constraint forces in a physics engine or as constraints in an optimization problem. version:1
arxiv-1709-09534 | Tweeting AI: Perceptions of Lay vs Expert Twitterati | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09534 | id:1709.09534 author:Lydia Manikonda, Subbarao Kambhampati category:cs.AI cs.CY cs.SI  published:2017-09-25 summary:With the recent advancements in Artificial Intelligence (AI), various organizations and individuals are debating about the progress of AI as a blessing or a curse for the future of the society. This paper conducts an investigation on how the public perceives the progress of AI by utilizing the data shared on Twitter. Specifically, this paper performs a comparative analysis on the understanding of users belonging to two categories -- general AI-Tweeters (AIT) and expert AI-Tweeters (EAIT) who share posts about AI on Twitter. Our analysis revealed that users from both the categories express distinct emotions and interests towards AI. Users from both the categories regard AI as positive and are optimistic about the progress of AI but the experts are more negative than the general AI-Tweeters. Expert AI-Tweeters share relatively large percentage of tweets about their personal news compared to technical aspects of AI. However, the effects of automation on the future are of primary concern to AIT than to EAIT. When the expert category is sub-categorized, the emotion analysis revealed that students and industry professionals have more insights in their tweets about AI than academicians. version:1
arxiv-1709-08669 | Glass-Box Program Synthesis: A Machine Learning Approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08669 | id:1709.08669 author:Konstantina Christakopoulou, Adam Tauman Kalai category:cs.LG cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-09-25 summary:Recently proposed models which learn to write computer programs from data use either input/output examples or rich execution traces. Instead, we argue that a novel alternative is to use a glass-box loss function, given as a program itself that can be directly inspected. Glass-box optimization covers a wide range of problems, from computing the greatest common divisor of two integers, to learning-to-learn problems. In this paper, we present an intelligent search system which learns, given the partial program and the glass-box problem, the probabilities over the space of programs. We empirically demonstrate that our informed search procedure leads to significant improvements compared to brute-force program search, both in terms of accuracy and time. For our experiments we use rich context free grammars inspired by number theory, text processing, and algebra. Our results show that (i) performing 4 rounds of our framework typically solves about 70% of the target problems, (ii) our framework can improve itself even in domain agnostic scenarios, and (iii) it can solve problems that would be otherwise too slow to solve with brute-force search. version:1
arxiv-1709-08662 | Collaborative Service Caching for Edge Computing in Dense Small Cell Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08662 | id:1709.08662 author:Lixing Chen, Jie Xu category:cs.GT cs.DC  published:2017-09-25 summary:Mobile Edge Computing (MEC) pushes computing functionalities away from the centralized cloud to the proximity of data sources, thereby reducing service provision latency and saving backhaul network bandwidth. Although computation offloading has been extensively studied in the literature, service caching is an equally, if not more, important design topic of MEC, yet receives much less attention. Service caching refers to caching application services and their related data (libraries/databases) in the edge server, e.g. MEC-enabled Base Station (BS), enabling corresponding computation tasks to be executed. Since only a small number of services can be cached in resource-limited edge server at the same time, which services to cache has to be judiciously decided to maximize the system performance. In this paper, we investigate collaborative service caching in MEC-enabled dense small cell (SC) networks. We propose an efficient decentralized algorithm, called CSC (Collaborative Service Caching), where a network of small cell BSs optimize service caching collaboratively to address a number of key challenges in MEC systems, including service heterogeneity, spatial demand coupling, and decentralized coordination. Our algorithm is developed based on parallel Gibbs sampling by exploiting the special structure of the considered problem using graphing coloring. The algorithm significantly improves the time efficiency compared to conventional Gibbs sampling, yet guarantees provable convergence and optimality. CSC is further extended to the SC network with selfish BSs, where a coalitional game is formulated to incentivize collaboration. A coalition formation algorithm is developed by employing the merge-and-split rules and ensures the stability of the SC coalitions. version:1
arxiv-1709-08607 | Towards automation of data quality system for CERN CMS experiment | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08607 | id:1709.08607 author:Maxim Borisyak, Fedor Ratnikov, Denis Derkach, Andrey Ustyuzhanin category:physics.data-an cs.AI cs.LG hep-ex  published:2017-09-25 summary:Daily operation of a large-scale experiment is a challenging task, particularly from perspectives of routine monitoring of quality for data being taken. We describe an approach that uses Machine Learning for the automated system to monitor data quality, which is based on partial use of data qualified manually by detector experts. The system automatically classifies marginal cases: both of good an bad data, and use human expert decision to classify remaining "grey area" cases. This study uses collision data collected by the CMS experiment at LHC in 2010. We demonstrate that proposed workflow is able to automatically process at least 20\% of samples without noticeable degradation of the result. version:1
arxiv-1709-08568 | The Consciousness Prior | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08568 | id:1709.08568 author:Yoshua Bengio category:cs.LG cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-09-25 summary:A new prior is proposed for representation learning, which can be combined with other priors in order to help disentangling abstract factors from each other. It is inspired by the phenomenon of consciousness seen as the formation of a low-dimensional combination of a few concepts constituting a conscious thought, i.e., consciousness as awareness at a particular time instant. This provides a powerful constraint on the representation in that such low-dimensional thought vectors can correspond to statements about reality which are true, highly probable, or very useful for taking decisions. The fact that a few elements of the current state can be combined into such a predictive or useful statement is a strong constraint and deviates considerably from the maximum likelihood approaches to modelling data and how states unfold in the future based on an agent's actions. Instead of making predictions in the sensory (e.g. pixel) space, the consciousness prior allows the agent to make predictions in the abstract space, with only a few dimensions of that space being involved in each of these predictions. The consciousness prior also makes it natural to map conscious states to natural language utterances or to express classical AI knowledge in the form of facts and rules, although the conscious states may be richer than what can be expressed easily in the form of a sentence, a fact or a rule. version:1
arxiv-1709-09051 | Exact MAP inference in general higher-order graphical models using linear programming | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09051 | id:1709.09051 author:Ikhlef Bechar category:math.OC cs.AI math.CO  published:2017-09-25 summary:This paper is concerned with the problem of exact MAP inference in general higher-order graphical models by means of a traditional linear programming relaxation approach. In fact, the proof that we have developed in this paper is a rather simple algebraic proof being made straightforward, above all, by the introduction of two novel algebraic tools. Indeed, on the one hand, we introduce the notion of delta-distribution which merely stands for the difference of two arbitrary probability distributions, and which mainly serves to alleviate the sign constraint inherent to a traditional probability distribution. On the other hand, we develop an approximation framework of general discrete functions by means of an orthogonal projection expressing in terms of linear combinations of function margins with respect to a given collection of point subsets, though, we rather exploit the latter approach for the purpose of modeling locally consistent sets of discrete functions from a global perspective. After that, as a first step, we develop from scratch the expectation optimization framework which is nothing else than a reformulation, on stochastic grounds, of the convex-hull approach, as a second step, we develop the traditional LP relaxation of such an expectation optimization approach, and we show that it enables to solve the MAP inference problem in graphical models under rather general assumptions. Last but not least, we describe an algorithm which allows to compute an exact MAP solution from a perhaps fractional optimal (probability) solution of the proposed LP relaxation. version:1
arxiv-1709-08536 | Towards An Adaptive Compliant Aerial Manipulator for Contact-Based Interaction | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08536 | id:1709.08536 author:Salua Hamaza, Ioannis Georgilas, Thomas Richardson category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-25 summary:As roles for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) continue to diversify, the ability to sense and interact closely with the environment becomes increasingly important. Within this paper we report on the initial flight tests of a novel adaptive compliant actuator which will allow a UAV to carry out such tasks as the "pick and placement" of remote sensors, structural testing and contact-based inspection. Three key results are discussed and presented; the ability to physically compensate impact forces or apply interaction forces by the UAV through the use of the active compliant manipulator; to be able to tailor these forces through tuning of the manipulator controller gains; and the ability to apply a rapid series of physical pulses in order to excite remotely placed sensors, e.g. vibration sensors. The paper describes the overall system requirements and system modelling considerations which have driven the concept through to flight testing. A series of over sixty flight tests have been used to generate initial results which clearly demonstrate the potential of this new type of compliant aerial actuator. Results are discussed in line with potential applications; and a series of future flight tests are described which will enable us to refine and characterise the overall system. version:1
arxiv-1709-08528 | A Data-driven Model for Interaction-aware Pedestrian Motion Prediction in Object Cluttered Environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08528 | id:1709.08528 author:Mark Pfeiffer, Giuseppe Paolo, Hannes Sommer, Juan Nieto, Roland Siegwart, Cesar Cadena category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-25 summary:This paper reports on a data-driven, interaction-aware motion prediction approach for pedestrians in environments cluttered with static obstacles. When navigating in such workspaces shared with humans, robots need accurate motion predictions of the surrounding pedestrians. Human navigation behavior is mostly influenced by their surrounding pedestrians and by the static obstacles in their vicinity. In this paper we introduce a new model based on Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) neural networks, which is able to learn human motion behavior from demonstrated data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach using LSTMs, that incorporates both static obstacles and surrounding pedestrians for trajectory forecasting. As part of the model, we introduce a new way of encoding surrounding pedestrians based on a 1d-grid in polar angle space. We evaluate the benefit of interaction-aware motion prediction and the added value of incorporating static obstacles on both simulation and real-world datasets by comparing with state-of-the-art approaches. The results show, that our new approach outperforms the other approaches while being very computationally efficient and that taking into account static obstacles for motion predictions significantly improves the prediction accuracy, especially in cluttered environments. version:1
arxiv-1709-08526 | Resource provisioning in Science Clouds: Requirements and challenges | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08526 | id:1709.08526 author:Álvaro López García, Enol Fernández-del-Castillo, Pablo Orviz Fernández, Isabel Campos Plasencia, Jesús Marco de Lucas category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-25 summary:Cloud computing has permeated into the information technology industry in the last few years, and it is emerging nowadays in scientific environments. Science user communities are demanding a broad range of computing power to satisfy the needs of high-performance applications, such as local clusters, high-performance computing systems, and computing grids. Different workloads are needed from different computational models, and the cloud is already considered as a promising paradigm. The scheduling and allocation of resources is always a challenging matter in any form of computation and clouds are not an exception. Science applications have unique features that differentiate their workloads, hence, their requirements have to be taken into consideration to be fulfilled when building a Science Cloud. This paper will discuss what are the main scheduling and resource allocation challenges for any Infrastructure as a Service provider supporting scientific applications. version:1
arxiv-1709-08519 | Enhanced Quantum Synchronization via Quantum Machine Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08519 | id:1709.08519 author:F. A. Cárdenas-López, M. Sanz, J. C. Retamal, E. Solano category:quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cs.AI cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-09-25 summary:We study the quantum synchronization between a pair of two-level systems inside two coupledcavities. Using a digital-analog decomposition of the master equation that rules the system dynamics, we show that this approach leads to quantum synchronization between both two-level systems. Moreover, we can identify in this digital-analog block decomposition the fundamental elements of a quantum machine learning protocol, in which the agent and the environment (learning units) interact through a mediating system, namely, the register. If we can additionally equip this algorithm with a classical feedback mechanism, which consists of projective measurements in the register, reinitialization of the register state and local conditional operations on the agent and register subspace, a powerful and flexible quantum machine learning protocol emerges. Indeed, numerical simulations show that this protocol enhances the synchronization process, even when every subsystem experience different loss/decoherence mechanisms, and give us flexibility to choose the synchronization state. Finally, we propose an implementation based on current technologies in superconducting circuits. version:1
arxiv-1709-08518 | A View-Dependent Adaptive Matched Filter for LADAR-Based Vehicle Tracking | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08518 | id:1709.08518 author:Daniel D. Morris, Regis Hoffman, Paul Haley category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-25 summary:LADARs mounted on mobile platforms produce a wealth of precise range data on the surrounding objects and vehicles. The challenge we address is to infer from these raw LADAR data the location and orientation of nearby vehicles. We propose a novel view-dependent adaptive matched filter for obtaining fast and precise measurements of target vehicle pose. We derive an analytic expression for the matching function which we optimize to obtain target pose and size. Our algorithm is fast, robust and simple to implement compared to other methods. When used as the measurement component of a tracker on an autonomous ground vehicle, we are able to track in excess of 50 targets at 10 Hz. Once targets are aligned using our matched filter, we use a support vector-based discriminator to distinguish vehicles from other objects. This tracker provides a key sensing component for our autonomous ground vehicles which have accumulated hundreds of miles of on-road and off-road autonomous driving. version:1
arxiv-1709-08517 | LADAR-Based Vehicle Tracking and Trajectory Estimation for Urban Driving | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08517 | id:1709.08517 author:Daniel Morris, Paul Haley, William Zachar, Steve McLean category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-25 summary:Safe mobility for unmanned ground vehicles requires reliable detection of other vehicles, along with precise estimates of their locations and trajectories. Here we describe the algorithms and system we have developed for accurate trajectory estimation of nearby vehicles using an onboard scanning LADAR. We introduce a variable-axis Ackerman steering model and compare this to an independent steering model. Then for robust tracking we propose a multi-hypothesis tracker that combines these kinematic models to leverage the strengths of each. When trajectories estimated with our techniques are input into a planner, they enable an unmanned vehicle to negotiate traffic in urban environments. Results have been evaluated running in real time on a moving vehicle with a scanning LADAR. version:1
arxiv-1709-08515 | LADAR-Based Mover Detection from Moving Vehicles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08515 | id:1709.08515 author:Daniel D. Morris, Brian Colonna, Paul Haley category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-09-25 summary:Detecting moving vehicles and people is crucial for safe operation of UGVs but is challenging in cluttered, real world environments. We propose a registration technique that enables objects to be robustly matched and tracked, and hence movers to be detected even in high clutter. Range data are acquired using a 2D scanning Ladar from a moving platform. These are automatically clustered into objects and modeled using a surface density function. A Bhattacharya similarity is optimized to register subsequent views of each object enabling good discrimination and tracking, and hence mover detection. version:1
arxiv-1709-08501 | The Efficient Server Audit Problem, Deduplicated Re-execution, and the Web | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08501 | id:1709.08501 author:Cheng Tan, Lingfan Yu, Joshua B. Leners, Michael Walfish category:cs.CR cs.DC  published:2017-09-25 summary:You put a program on a concurrent server, but you don't trust the server, later, you get a trace of the actual requests that the server received from its clients and the responses that it delivered. You separately get logs from the server, these are untrusted. How can you use the logs to efficiently verify that the responses were derived from running the program on the requests? This is the Efficient Server Audit Problem, and it abstracts real-world scenarios, including running a web application on an untrusted provider. We present a solution based on several new techniques, including SIMD-on-demand replay of requests that share the same control flow, and simulate-and-check, in which the verifier re-executes read operations from logs, and validates the logs opportunistically. We build a system that implements the solution for PHP-based web applications. For several applications, our implemented verifier achieves 5.6--10.9x speedup versus simply re-executing, at the cost of less than 10 percent overhead on the server's execution. version:1
arxiv-1709-08480 | J-MOD$^{2}$: Joint Monocular Obstacle Detection and Depth Estimation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08480 | id:1709.08480 author:Michele Mancini, Gabriele Costante, Paolo Valigi, Thomas A. Ciarfuglia category:cs.LG cs.RO  published:2017-09-25 summary:In this work, we give a new twist to monocular obstacle detection. Most of the existing approaches either rely on Visual SLAM systems or on depth estimation models to build 3D maps and detect obstacles. Despite their success, these methods are not specifically devised for monocular obstacle detection. In particular, they are not robust to appearance and camera intrinsics changes or texture-less scenarios. To overcome these limitations, we propose an end-to-end deep architecture that jointly learns to detect obstacle and estimate their depth. The multi task nature of this strategy strengthen both the obstacle detection task with more reliable bounding boxes and range measures and the depth estimation one with robustness to scenario changes. We call this architecture J-MOD$^{2}$ We prove the effectiveness of our approach with experiments on sequences with different appearance and focal lengths. Furthermore, we show its benefits on a set of simulated navigation experiments where a MAV explores an unknown scenario and plans safe trajectories by using our detection model. version:1
arxiv-1709-08471 | Bayesian Filtering for ODEs with Bounded Derivatives | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08471 | id:1709.08471 author:Emilia Magnani, Hans Kersting, Michael Schober, Philipp Hennig category:cs.NA cs.AI  published:2017-09-25 summary:Recently there has been increasing interest in probabilistic solvers for ordinary differential equations (ODEs) that return full probability measures, instead of point estimates, over the solution and can incorporate uncertainty over the ODE at hand, e.g. if the vector field or the initial value is only approximately known or evaluable. The ODE filter proposed in recent work models the solution of the ODE by a Gauss-Markov process which serves as a prior in the sense of Bayesian statistics. While previous work employed a Wiener process prior on the (possibly multiple times) differentiated solution of the ODE and established equivalence of the corresponding solver with classical numerical methods, this paper raises the question whether other priors also yield practically useful solvers. To this end, we discuss a range of possible priors which enable fast filtering and propose a new prior--the Integrated Ornstein Uhlenbeck Process (IOUP)--that complements the existing Integrated Wiener process (IWP) filter by encoding the property that a derivative in time of the solution is bounded in the sense that it tends to drift back to zero. We provide experiments comparing IWP and IOUP filters which support the belief that IWP approximates better divergent ODE's solutions whereas IOUP is a better prior for trajectories with bounded derivatives. version:1
arxiv-1709-08461 | Mining a Sub-Matrix of Maximal Sum | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08461 | id:1709.08461 author:Vincent Branders, Pierre Schaus, Pierre Dupont category:stat.ML cs.AI  published:2017-09-25 summary:Biclustering techniques have been widely used to identify homogeneous subgroups within large data matrices, such as subsets of genes similarly expressed across subsets of patients. Mining a max-sum sub-matrix is a related but distinct problem for which one looks for a (non-necessarily contiguous) rectangular sub-matrix with a maximal sum of its entries. Le Van et al. (Ranked Tiling, 2014) already illustrated its applicability to gene expression analysis and addressed it with a constraint programming (CP) approach combined with large neighborhood search (CP-LNS). In this work, we exhibit some key properties of this NP-hard problem and define a bounding function such that larger problems can be solved in reasonable time. Two different algorithms are proposed in order to exploit the highlighted characteristics of the problem: a CP approach with a global constraint (CPGC) and mixed integer linear programming (MILP). Practical experiments conducted both on synthetic and real gene expression data exhibit the characteristics of these approaches and their relative benefits over the original CP-LNS method. Overall, the CPGC approach tends to be the fastest to produce a good solution. Yet, the MILP formulation is arguably the easiest to formulate and can also be competitive. version:1
arxiv-1709-08430 | Towards continuous control of flippers for a multi-terrain robot using deep reinforcement learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08430 | id:1709.08430 author:Giuseppe Paolo, Lei Tai, Ming Liu category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-09-25 summary:In this paper we focus on developing a control algorithm for multi-terrain tracked robots with flippers using a reinforcement learning (RL) approach. The work is based on the deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) algorithm, proven to be very successful in simple simulation environments. The algorithm works in an end-to-end fashion in order to control the continuous position of the flippers. This end-to-end approach makes it easy to apply the controller to a wide array of circumstances, but the huge flexibility comes to the cost of an increased difficulty of solution. The complexity of the task is enlarged even more by the fact that real multi-terrain robots move in partially observable environments. Notwithstanding these complications, being able to smoothly control a multi-terrain robot can produce huge benefits in impaired people daily lives or in search and rescue situations. version:1
arxiv-1709-08429 | DeepVO: Towards End-to-End Visual Odometry with Deep Recurrent Convolutional Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08429 | id:1709.08429 author:Sen Wang, Ronald Clark, Hongkai Wen, Niki Trigoni category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-25 summary:This paper studies monocular visual odometry (VO) problem. Most of existing VO algorithms are developed under a standard pipeline including feature extraction, feature matching, motion estimation, local optimisation, etc. Although some of them have demonstrated superior performance, they usually need to be carefully designed and specifically fine-tuned to work well in different environments. Some prior knowledge is also required to recover an absolute scale for monocular VO. This paper presents a novel end-to-end framework for monocular VO by using deep Recurrent Convolutional Neural Networks (RCNNs). Since it is trained and deployed in an end-to-end manner, it infers poses directly from a sequence of raw RGB images (videos) without adopting any module in the conventional VO pipeline. Based on the RCNNs, it not only automatically learns effective feature representation for the VO problem through Convolutional Neural Networks, but also implicitly models sequential dynamics and relations using deep Recurrent Neural Networks. Extensive experiments on the KITTI VO dataset show competitive performance to state-of-the-art methods, verifying that the end-to-end Deep Learning technique can be a viable complement to the traditional VO systems. version:1
arxiv-1709-08426 | Non-iterative Label Propagation on Optimal Leading Forest | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08426 | id:1709.08426 author:Ji Xu, Guoyin Wang category:cs.LG cs.AI H.2.8  published:2017-09-25 summary:Graph based semi-supervised learning (GSSL) has intuitive representation and can be improved by exploiting the matrix calculation. However, it has to perform iterative optimization to achieve a preset objective, which usually leads to low efficiency. Another inconvenience lying in GSSL is that when new data come, the graph construction and the optimization have to be conducted all over again. We propose a sound assumption, arguing that: the neighboring data points are not in peer-to-peer relation, but in a partial-ordered relation induced by the local density and distance between the data; and the label of a center can be regarded as the contribution of its followers. Starting from the assumption, we develop a highly efficient non-iterative label propagation algorithm based on a novel data structure named as optimal leading forest (LaPOLeaF). The major weaknesses of the traditional GSSL are addressed by this study. We further scale LaPOLeaF to accommodate big data by utilizing block distance matrix technique, parallel computing, and Locality-Sensitive Hashing (LSH). Experiments on large datasets have shown the promising results of the proposed methods. version:1
arxiv-1709-08385 | Deep Learning Based Cryptographic Primitive Classification | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08385 | id:1709.08385 author:Gregory D. Hill, Xavier J. A. Bellekens category:cs.CR cs.AI cs.NE  published:2017-09-25 summary:Cryptovirological augmentations present an immediate, incomparable threat. Over the last decade, the substantial proliferation of crypto-ransomware has had widespread consequences for consumers and organisations alike. Established preventive measures perform well, however, the problem has not ceased. Reverse engineering potentially malicious software is a cumbersome task due to platform eccentricities and obfuscated transmutation mechanisms, hence requiring smarter, more efficient detection strategies. The following manuscript presents a novel approach for the classification of cryptographic primitives in compiled binary executables using deep learning. The model blueprint, a DCNN, is fittingly configured to learn from variable-length control flow diagnostics output from a dynamic trace. To rival the size and variability of contemporary data compendiums, hence feeding the model cognition, a methodology for the procedural generation of synthetic cryptographic binaries is defined, utilising core primitives from OpenSSL with multivariate obfuscation, to draw a vastly scalable distribution. The library, CryptoKnight, rendered an algorithmic pool of AES, RC4, Blowfish, MD5 and RSA to synthesis combinable variants which are automatically fed in its core model. Converging at 91% accuracy, CryptoKnight is successfully able to classify the sample algorithms with minimal loss. version:1
arxiv-1709-08366 | "Let me convince you to buy my product ... ": A Case Study of an Automated Persuasive System for Fashion Products | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08366 | id:1709.08366 author:Vitobha Munigala, Srikanth Tamilselvam, Anush Sankaran category:cs.AI cs.CL  published:2017-09-25 summary:Persuasivenes is a creative art aimed at making people believe in certain set of beliefs. Many a times, such creativity is about adapting richness of one domain into another to strike a chord with the target audience. In this research, we present PersuAIDE! - A persuasive system based on linguistic creativity to transform given sentence to generate various forms of persuading sentences. These various forms cover multiple focus of persuasion such as memorability and sentiment. For a given simple product line, the algorithm is composed of several steps including: (i) select an appropriate well-known expression for the target domain to add memorability, (ii) identify keywords and entities in the given sentence and expression and transform it to produce creative persuading sentence, and (iii) adding positive or negative sentiment for further persuasion. The persuasive conversion were manually verified using qualitative results and the effectiveness of the proposed approach is empirically discussed. version:1
arxiv-1709-08363 | Node Primitives: an open end-user programming platform for social robots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08363 | id:1709.08363 author:Enrique Coronado, Fulvio Mastrogiovanni, Gentiane Venture category:cs.RO 68T40  published:2017-09-25 summary:With the expected adoption of robots able to seamlessly and intuitively interact with people in real-world scenarios, the need arises to provide non-technically-skilled users with easy-to-understand paradigms for customising robot behaviors. In this paper, we present an interaction design robot programming platform for enabling multidisciplinary social robot research and applications. This platform is referred to Node Primitives (NEP) and consists of two main parts. On the one hand, a ZeroMQ and Python-based distributed software framework has been developed to provide inter-process communication and robot behavior specification mechanisms. On the other hand, a web-based end-user programming (EUP) interface has been developed to allow for an easy and intuitive way of programming and executing robot behaviors. In order to evaluate NEP, we discuss the development of a human-robot interaction application using arm gestures to control robot behaviors. A usability test for the proposed EUP interface is also presented. version:1
arxiv-1709-03401 | EndoSensorFusion: Particle Filtering-Based Multi-sensory Data Fusion with Switching State-Space Model for Endoscopic Capsule Robots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.03401 | id:1709.03401 author:Mehmet Turan, Yasin Almalioglu, Hunter Gilbert, Helder Araujo, Taylan Cemgil, Metin Sitti category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-08 summary:A reliable, real time multi-sensor fusion functionality is crucial for localization of actively controlled capsule endoscopy robots, which are an emerging, minimally invasive diagnostic and therapeutic technology for the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. In this study, we propose a novel multi-sensor fusion approach based on a particle filter that incorporates an online estimation of sensor reliability and a non-linear kinematic model learned by a recurrent neural network. Our method sequentially estimates the true robot pose from noisy pose observations delivered by multiple sensors. We experimentally test the method using 5 degree-of-freedom (5-DoF) absolute pose measurement by a magnetic localization system and a 6-DoF relative pose measurement by visual odometry. In addition, the proposed method is capable of detecting and handling sensor failures by ignoring corrupted data, providing the robustness expected of a medical device. Detailed analyses and evaluations are presented using ex-vivo experiments on a porcine stomach model prove that our system achieves high translational and rotational accuracies for different types of endoscopic capsule robot trajectories. version:3
arxiv-1709-08296 | Application-Layer Clock Synchronization for Wearables Using Skin Electric Potentials Induced by Powerline Radiation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08296 | id:1709.08296 author:Zhenyu Yan, Yang Li, Rui Tan, Jun Huang category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-25 summary:Design of clock synchronization for networked nodes faces a fundamental trade-off between synchronization accuracy and universality for heterogeneous platforms, because a high synchronization accuracy generally requires platform-dependent hardware-level network packet timestamping. This paper presents TouchSync, a new indoor clock synchronization approach for wearables that achieves millisecond accuracy while preserving universality in that it uses standard system calls only, such as reading system clock, sampling sensors, and sending/receiving network messages. The design of TouchSync is driven by a key finding from our extensive measurements that the skin electric potentials (SEPs) induced by powerline radiation are salient, periodic, and synchronous on a same wearer and even across different wearers. TouchSync integrates the SEP signal into the universal principle of Network Time Protocol and solves an integer ambiguity problem by fusing the ambiguous results in multiple synchronization rounds to conclude an accurate clock offset between two synchronizing wearables. With our shared code, TouchSync can be readily integrated into any wearable applications. Extensive evaluation based on our Arduino and TinyOS implementations shows that TouchSync's synchronization errors are below 3 and 7 milliseconds on the same wearer and between two wearers 10 kilometers apart, respectively. version:1
arxiv-1709-08292 | Underwater Multi-Robot Convoying using Visual Tracking by Detection | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08292 | id:1709.08292 author:Florian Shkurti, Wei-Di Chang, Peter Henderson, Md Jahidul Islam, Juan Camilo Gamboa Higuera, Jimmy Li, Travis Manderson, Anqi Xu, Gregory Dudek, Junaed Sattar category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-09-25 summary:We present a robust multi-robot convoying approach that relies on visual detection of the leading agent, thus enabling target following in unstructured 3-D environments. Our method is based on the idea of tracking-by-detection, which interleaves efficient model-based object detection with temporal filtering of image-based bounding box estimation. This approach has the important advantage of mitigating tracking drift (i.e. drifting away from the target object), which is a common symptom of model-free trackers and is detrimental to sustained convoying in practice. To illustrate our solution, we collected extensive footage of an underwater robot in ocean settings, and hand-annotated its location in each frame. Based on this dataset, we present an empirical comparison of multiple tracker variants, including the use of several convolutional neural networks, both with and without recurrent connections, as well as frequency-based model-free trackers. We also demonstrate the practicality of this tracking-by-detection strategy in real-world scenarios by successfully controlling a legged underwater robot in five degrees of freedom to follow another robot's independent motion. version:1
arxiv-1709-08233 | Learning Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Control for Autonomous Target Following | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08233 | id:1709.08233 author:Siyi Li, Tianbo Liu, Chi Zhang, Dit-Yan Yeung, Shaojie Shen category:cs.AI cs.RO  published:2017-09-24 summary:While deep reinforcement learning (RL) methods have achieved unprecedented successes in a range of challenging problems, their applicability has been mainly limited to simulation or game domains due to the high sample complexity of the trial-and-error learning process. However, real-world robotic applications often need a data-efficient learning process with safety-critical constraints. In this paper, we consider the challenging problem of learning unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) control for tracking a moving target. To acquire a strategy that combines perception and control, we represent the policy by a convolutional neural network. We develop a hierarchical approach that combines a model-free policy gradient method with a conventional feedback proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller to enable stable learning without catastrophic failure. The neural network is trained by a combination of supervised learning from raw images and reinforcement learning from games of self-play. We show that the proposed approach can learn a target following policy in a simulator efficiently and the learned behavior can be successfully transferred to the DJI quadrotor platform for real-world UAV control. version:1
arxiv-1709-08215 | SEAR: A Polynomial-Time Expected Constant-Factor Optimal Algorithmic Framework for Multi-Robot Path Planning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08215 | id:1709.08215 author:Shuai D. Han, Edgar J. Rodriguez, Jingjin Yu category:cs.MA cs.RO  published:2017-09-24 summary:This work studies the labeled multi-robot path and motion planning problem in continuous domains, in the absence of static obstacles. Given $n$ robots which may be arbitrarily close to each other and assuming random start and goal configurations for the robots, we derived an $O(n^3)$, complete algorithm that produces solutions with constant-factor optimality guarantees on both makespan and distance optimality, in expectation. Furthermore, our algorithm only requires a small constant factor expansion of the initial and goal configuration footprints for solving the problem. In addition to strong theoretical guarantees, we present a thorough computational evaluation of the proposed solution. Beyond the baseline solution, adapting an effective (but non-polynomial time) robot routing subroutine, we also provide a highly efficient implementation that quickly computes near-optimal solutions. Hardware experiments on microMVP platform composed of non-holonomic robots confirms the practical applicability of our algorithmic pipeline. version:1
arxiv-1709-07876 | Robust and Versatile Event Detection through Gradient-Based Scoring of HMM Models | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07876 | id:1709.07876 author:Shuangqi Luo, Hongmin Wu, Hongbin Lin, Shuangda Duan, Yisheng Guan, Juan Rojas category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-24 summary:Event detection is a critical feature across any data-driven system as it assists with the identification of nominal and anomalous behavior. Event detection is all the more relevant in robotics as robots are required to operate with greater autonomy and in increasingly unstructured environments. Recently supervised and unsupervised machine learning methods along with probabilistic models have played increasingly important roles in modeling and predicting events. In this work, we present an accurate, robust, fast, and versatile measure for skill and anomaly identification. Our work presents a theoretical proof that establishes the link between the derivative of the HMM log-likelihood and the latest emission probabilities. The result used a set of verifiable suppositions and insights aided by the log-sum-exp trick. This link established that the latest emission probabilities directly affected the log-likelihood gradient. The key insight was the inverse relationship: that from these gradients skills and anomalies could be identified. Our results showed better performance across all metrics than related state-of-the art results. The result is very significant for event detection problems as the gradient-based measure can be broadly utilized in any subject area (finance, bioinformatics, natural language processing, computer vision, etc) that involves HMM modeling, including its extensions: parametric, nonparametric, hierarchical, etc). version:1
arxiv-1709-08201 | An Optimal Online Method of Selecting Source Policies for Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08201 | id:1709.08201 author:Siyuan Li, Chongjie Zhang category:cs.AI cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-09-24 summary:Transfer learning significantly accelerates the reinforcement learning process by exploiting relevant knowledge from previous experiences. The problem of optimally selecting source policies during the learning process is of great importance yet challenging. There has been little theoretical analysis of this problem. In this paper, we develop an optimal online method to select source policies for reinforcement learning. This method formulates online source policy selection as a multi-armed bandit problem and augments Q-learning with policy reuse. We provide theoretical guarantees of the optimal selection process and convergence to the optimal policy. In addition, we conduct experiments on a grid-based robot navigation domain to demonstrate its efficiency and robustness by comparing to the state-of-the-art transfer learning method. version:1
arxiv-1709-08624 | Long Text Generation via Adversarial Training with Leaked Information | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08624 | id:1709.08624 author:Jiaxian Guo, Sidi Lu, Han Cai, Weinan Zhang, Yong Yu, Jun Wang category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-09-24 summary:Automatically generating coherent and semantically meaningful text has many applications in machine translation, dialogue systems, image captioning, etc. Recently, by combining with policy gradient, Generative Adversarial Nets (GAN) that use a discriminative model to guide the training of the generative model as a reinforcement learning policy has shown promising results in text generation. However, the scalar guiding signal is only available after the entire text has been generated and lacks intermediate information about text structure during the generative process. As such, it limits its success when the length of the generated text samples is long (more than 20 words). In this paper, we propose a new framework, called LeakGAN, to address the problem for long text generation. We allow the discriminative net to leak its own high-level extracted features to the generative net to further help the guidance. The generator incorporates such informative signals into all generation steps through an additional Manager module, which takes the extracted features of current generated words and outputs a latent vector to guide the Worker module for next-word generation. Our extensive experiments on synthetic data and various real-world tasks with Turing test demonstrate that LeakGAN is highly effective in long text generation and also improves the performance in short text generation scenarios. More importantly, without any supervision, LeakGAN would be able to implicitly learn sentence structures only through the interaction between Manager and Worker. version:1
arxiv-1709-08163 | Intrusions in Marked Renewal Processes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08163 | id:1709.08163 author:David Tolpin category:cs.AI cs.CR  published:2017-09-24 summary:We present a probabilistic model of an intrusion in a marked renewal process. Given a process and a sequence of events, an intrusion is a subsequence of events that is not produced by the process. Applications of the model are, for example, online payment fraud with the fraudster taking over a user's account and performing payments on the user's behalf, or unexpected equipment failures due to unintended use. We adopt Bayesian approach to infer the probability of an intrusion in a sequence of events, a MAP subsequence of events constituting the intrusion, and the marginal probability of each event in a sequence to belong to the intrusion. We evaluate the model for intrusion detection on synthetic data, as well as on anonymized data from an online payment system. version:1
arxiv-1709-08126 | Self-supervised learning: When is fusion of the primary and secondary sensor cue useful? | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08126 | id:1709.08126 author:G. C. H. E. de Croon category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-09-23 summary:Self-supervised learning (SSL) is a reliable learning mechanism in which a robot enhances its perceptual capabilities. Typically, in SSL a trusted, primary sensor cue provides supervised training data to a secondary sensor cue. In this article, a theoretical analysis is performed on the fusion of the primary and secondary cue in a minimal model of SSL. A proof is provided that determines the specific conditions under which it is favorable to perform fusion. In short, it is favorable when (i) the prior on the target value is strong or (ii) the secondary cue is sufficiently accurate. The theoretical findings are validated with computational experiments. Subsequently, a real-world case study is performed to investigate if fusion in SSL is also beneficial when assumptions of the minimal model are not met. In particular, a flying robot learns to map pressure measurements to sonar height measurements and then fuses the two, resulting in better height estimation. Fusion is also beneficial in the opposite case, when pressure is the primary cue. The analysis and results are encouraging to study SSL fusion also for other robots and sensors. version:1
arxiv-1709-08120 | GP-SUM. Gaussian Processes Filtering of non-Gaussian Beliefs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08120 | id:1709.08120 author:Maria Bauza, Alberto Rodriguez category:cs.RO cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-09-23 summary:This work centers on the problem of stochastic filtering for systems that yield complex beliefs. The main contribution is GP-SUM, a filtering algorithm for dynamic systems expressed as Gaussian Processes (GP), that does not rely on linearizations or Gaussian approximations of the belief. The algorithm can be seen as a combination of a sampling-based filter and a probabilistic Bayes filter. GP-SUM operates by sampling the state distribution and propagating each sample through the dynamic system and observation models. Both, the sampling of the state and its propagation, are made possible by relying on the GP form of the system. In practice, the belief has the form of a weighted sum of Gaussians. We evaluate the performance of the algorithm with favorable comparisons against multiple versions of GP-Bayes filters on a standard synthetic problem. We also illustrate its practical use in a pushing task, and demonstrate that GP-SUM can predict heteroscedasticity, i.e., different amounts of uncertainty, and multi-modality when naturally occurring in pushing. version:1
arxiv-1709-08073 | Cross-modal Recurrent Models for Human Weight Objective Prediction from Multimodal Time-series Data | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08073 | id:1709.08073 author:Petar Veličković, Laurynas Karazija, Nicholas D. Lane, Sourav Bhattacharya, Edgar Liberis, Pietro Liò, Angela Chieh, Otmane Bellahsen, Matthieu Vegreville category:stat.ML cs.AI cs.LG q-bio.QM  published:2017-09-23 summary:We analyse multimodal time-series data corresponding to weight, sleep and steps measurements, derived from a dataset spanning 15000 users, collected across a range of consumer-grade health devices by Nokia Digital Health - Withings. We focus on predicting whether a user will successfully achieve his/her weight objective. For this, we design several deep long short-term memory (LSTM) architectures, including a novel cross-modal LSTM (X-LSTM), and demonstrate their superiority over several baseline approaches. The X-LSTM improves parameter efficiency of the feature extraction by separately processing each modality, while also allowing for information flow between modalities by way of recurrent cross-connections. We derive a general hyperparameter optimisation technique for X-LSTMs, allowing us to significantly improve on the LSTM, as well as on a prior state-of-the-art cross-modal approach, using a comparable number of parameters. Finally, we visualise the X-LSTM classification models, revealing interesting potential implications about latent variables in this task. version:1
arxiv-1709-08071 | Autonomous Agents Modelling Other Agents: A Comprehensive Survey and Open Problems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08071 | id:1709.08071 author:Stefano V. Albrecht, Peter Stone category:cs.AI cs.MA I.2.11  published:2017-09-23 summary:Much research in artificial intelligence is concerned with the development of autonomous agents that can interact effectively with other agents. An important aspect of such agents is the ability to reason about the behaviours of other agents, by constructing models which make predictions about various properties of interest (such as actions, goals, beliefs) of the modelled agents. A variety of modelling approaches now exist which vary widely in their methodology and underlying assumptions, catering to the needs of the different sub-communities within which they were developed and reflecting the different practical uses for which they are intended. The purpose of the present article is to provide a comprehensive survey of the salient modelling methods which can be found in the literature. The article concludes with a discussion of open problems which may form the basis for fruitful future research. version:1
arxiv-1709-08054 | Design, Modeling and Dynamic Compensation PID Control of a Fully-Actuated Aerial Manipulation System | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08054 | id:1709.08054 author:Le Ma, Dong Wang, Zixu Hao, Jie Liu, Jiasen Sun, Siyu Wang category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-23 summary:This paper addresses design, modeling and dynamic-compensation PID (dc-PID) control of a novel type of fully-actuated aerial manipulation (AM) system. Firstly, design of novel mechanical structure of the AM is presented. Secondly, kinematics and dynamics of AM are modeled using Craig parameters and recursion Newton-Euler equations respectively, which give rise to a more accurate dynamic relationship between aerial platform and manipulator. Then, the dynamic-compensation PID control is proposed to solve the problem of fully-actuated control of AM. Finally, uniform coupled matrix equations between driving forces/moments and rotor speeds are derived, which can support design and analysis of parameters and decoupling theoretically. It is taken into account practical problems including noise and perturbation, parameter uncertainty, and power limitation in simulations, and results from simulations shows that the AM system presented can be fully-actued controlled with advanced control performances, which can not achieved theoretically in traditional AM. And with compared to backstepping control dc-PID has better control accuracy and capability to disturbance rejection in two simulations of aerial operation tasks with motion of joint. The experiment of dc-pid proves the availability and effectiveness of the method proposed. version:1
arxiv-1709-08034 | Prioritized Norms in Formal Argumentation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08034 | id:1709.08034 author:Beishui Liao, Nir Oren, Leendert van der Torre, Serena Villata category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-23 summary:To resolve conflicts among norms,various nonmonotonic formalisms can be used to perform prioritized normative reasoning. Meanwhile, formal argumentation provides a way to represent nonmonotonic logics. In this paper, we propose a representation of prioritized normative reasoning by argumentation. Using hierarchical abstract normative systems, we define three kinds of prioritized normative reasoning approaches, called Greedy, Reduction, and Optimization. Then, after formulating an argumentation theory for a hierarchical abstract normative system, we show that for a totally ordered hierarchical abstract normative system, Greedy and Reduction can be represented in argumentation by applying the weakest link and the last link principles respectively, and Optimization can be represented by introducing additional defeats capturing implicit conflicts between arguments. version:1
arxiv-1709-08028 | Towards Classification of Web ontologies using the Horizontal and Vertical Segmentation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08028 | id:1709.08028 author:Noreddine Gherabi, Redouane Nejjahi, Abderrahim Marzouk category:cs.AI cs.DB  published:2017-09-23 summary:The new era of the Web is known as the semantic Web or the Web of data. The semantic Web depends on ontologies that are seen as one of its pillars. The bigger these ontologies, the greater their exploitation. However, when these ontologies become too big other problems may appear, such as the complexity to charge big files in memory, the time it needs to download such files and especially the time it needs to make reasoning on them. We discuss in this paper approaches for segmenting such big Web ontologies as well as its usefulness. The segmentation method extracts from an existing ontology a segment that represents a layer or a generation in the existing ontology; i.e. a horizontally extraction. The extracted segment should be itself an ontology. version:1
arxiv-1709-08027 | Object-Oriented Knowledge Representation and Data Storage Using Inhomogeneous Classes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08027 | id:1709.08027 author:Dmytro Terletskyi category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-23 summary:This paper contains analysis of concept of a class within different object-oriented knowledge representation models. The main attention is paid to structure of the class and its efficiency in the context of data storage, using object-relational mapping. The main achievement of the paper is extension of concept of homogeneous class of objects by introducing concepts of single-core and multi-core inhomogeneous classes of objects, which allow simultaneous defining of a few different types within one class of objects, avoiding duplication of properties and methods in representation of types, decreasing sizes of program codes and providing more efficient information storage in the databases. In addition, the paper contains results of experiment, which show that data storage in relational database, using proposed extensions of the class, in some cases is more efficient in contrast to usage of homogeneous classes of objects. version:1
arxiv-1709-08024 | When Traffic Flow Prediction Meets Wireless Big Data Analytics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08024 | id:1709.08024 author:Yuanfang Chen, Mohsen Guizani, Yan Zhang, Lei Wang, Noel Crespi, Gyu Myoung Lee category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-23 summary:Traffic flow prediction is an important research issue for solving the traffic congestion problem in an Intelligent Transportation System (ITS). Traffic congestion is one of the most serious problems in a city, which can be predicted in advance by analyzing traffic flow patterns. Such prediction is possible by analyzing the real-time transportation data from correlative roads and vehicles. This article first gives a brief introduction to the transportation data, and surveys the state-of-the-art prediction methods. Then, we verify whether or not the prediction performance is able to be improved by fitting actual data to optimize the parameters of the prediction model which is used to predict the traffic flow. Such verification is conducted by comparing the optimized time series prediction model with the normal time series prediction model. This means that in the era of big data, accurate use of the data becomes the focus of studying the traffic flow prediction to solve the congestion problem. Finally, experimental results of a case study are provided to verify the existence of such performance improvement, while the research challenges of this data-analytics-based prediction are presented and discussed. version:1
arxiv-1709-08001 | Real-time Log Query Interface for large datasets using Apache Spark | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.08001 | id:1709.08001 author:Sandeep Sandha, Xin Xu, Yue Xin, Zhehan Li category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-23 summary:Log Query Interface is an interactive web application that allows users to query the very large data logs of MobileInsight easily and efficiently. With this interface, users no longer need to talk to the database through command line queries, nor to install the MobileInsight client locally to fetch data. Users can simply select/type the query message through our web based system which queries the database very efficiently and responds back to user. While testing on 6GB of datasets our system takes less than 1 seconds to respond back, the similar queries on traditional MySql database takes more than 60 seconds. The system gives user the capability to execute all the queries using sql query language. User can perform complex join operations on very large tables. The query response time is hugely improved by the server side Spark clusters, which stores the big datasets in a distributed system and execute the query in parallel on multiple machines. version:1
arxiv-1708-00146 | Large-Scale Low-Rank Matrix Learning with Nonconvex Regularizers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.00146 | id:1708.00146 author:Quanming Yao, James T. Kwok, Taifeng Wang, Tie-Yan Liu category:cs.LG cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-08-01 summary:Low-rank modeling has many important applications in computer vision and machine learning. While the matrix rank is often approximated by the convex nuclear norm, the use of nonconvex low-rank regularizers has demonstrated better empirical performance. However, the resulting optimization problem is much more challenging. Recent state-of-the-art requires an expensive full SVD in each iteration. In this paper, we show that for many commonly-used nonconvex low-rank regularizers, a cutoff can be derived to automatically threshold the singular values obtained from the proximal operator. This allows such operator being efficiently approximated by power method. Based on it, we develop a proximal gradient algorithm (and its accelerated variant) with inexact proximal splitting and prove that a convergence rate of O(1/T) where T is the number of iterations is guaranteed. Furthermore, we show the proposed algorithm can be well parallelized, which achieves nearly linear speedup w.r.t the number of threads. Extensive experiments are performed on matrix completion and robust principal component analysis, which shows a significant speedup over the state-of-the-art. Moreover, the matrix solution obtained is more accurate and has a lower rank than that of the nuclear norm regularizer. version:2
arxiv-1604-07086 | A Fundamental Tradeoff between Computation and Communication in Distributed Computing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1604.07086 | id:1604.07086 author:Songze Li, Mohammad Ali Maddah-Ali, Qian Yu, A. Salman Avestimehr category:cs.IT cs.DC math.IT  published:2016-04-24 summary:How can we optimally trade extra computing power to reduce the communication load in distributed computing? We answer this question by characterizing a fundamental tradeoff between computation and communication in distributed computing, i.e., the two are inversely proportional to each other. More specifically, a general distributed computing framework, motivated by commonly used structures like MapReduce, is considered, where the overall computation is decomposed into computing a set of "Map" and "Reduce" functions distributedly across multiple computing nodes. A coded scheme, named "Coded Distributed Computing" (CDC), is proposed to demonstrate that increasing the computation load of the Map functions by a factor of $r$ (i.e., evaluating each function at $r$ carefully chosen nodes) can create novel coding opportunities that reduce the communication load by the same factor. An information-theoretic lower bound on the communication load is also provided, which matches the communication load achieved by the CDC scheme. As a result, the optimal computation-communication tradeoff in distributed computing is exactly characterized. Finally, the coding techniques of CDC is applied to the Hadoop TeraSort benchmark to develop a novel CodedTeraSort algorithm, which is empirically demonstrated to speed up the overall job execution by $1.97\times$ - $3.39\times$, for typical settings of interest. version:2
arxiv-1709-07978 | Semi-Automatic Control of Telepresence Robots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07978 | id:1709.07978 author:Dmitry Suvorov, Roman Zhukov, Dzmitry Tsetserukou, Anton Evmenenko, Boris Goldstein category:cs.RO I.2.9  published:2017-09-23 summary:Companies all over the world started to produce and sell telepresence robots in the last decade. Users of these robots have to plan their way to avoid collisions and control the speed of the robot to move it to destination point. This interface is familiar to many people who play computer games but it causes difficulties for the older generation and disabled people. We present here a novel interface to control telepresence robots where the operator only specifies the destination point on the video frame and the robot moves there automatically and avoids collisions. Users of the robots learn how to perform tasks 7-28% faster and make 17-49% fewer mistakes. The approach can be easily applied for any commercial telepresence robot and for development of telepresence robots for disabled people. version:1
arxiv-1709-07973 | Sparse Bayesian Inference for Dense Semantic Mapping | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07973 | id:1709.07973 author:Lu Gan, Maani Ghaffari Jadidi, Steven A. Parkison, Ryan M. Eustice category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-22 summary:Despite impressive advances in simultaneous localization and mapping, dense robotic mapping remains challenging due to its inherent nature of being a high-dimensional inference problem. In this paper, we propose a dense semantic robotic mapping technique that exploits sparse Bayesian models, in particular, the relevance vector machine, for high-dimensional sequential inference. The technique is based on the principle of automatic relevance determination and produces sparse models that use a small subset of the original dense training set as the dominant basis. The resulting map posterior is continuous, and queries can be made efficiently at any resolution. Moreover, the technique has probabilistic outputs per semantic class through Bayesian inference. We evaluate the proposed relevance vector semantic map using publicly available benchmark datasets, NYU Depth V2 and KITTI; and the results show promising improvements over the state-of-the-art techniques. version:1
arxiv-1709-07972 | Cloud-aided collaborative estimation by ADMM-RLS algorithms for connected vehicle prognostics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07972 | id:1709.07972 author:Valentina Breschi, Ilya Kolmanovsky, Alberto Bemporad category:cs.SY cs.DC cs.MA eess.SP math.OC  published:2017-09-22 summary:As the connectivity of consumer devices is rapidly growing and cloud computing technologies are becoming more widespread, cloud-aided techniques for parameter estimation can be designed to exploit the theoretically unlimited storage memory and computational power of the cloud, while relying on information provided by multiple sources. With the ultimate goal of developing monitoring and diagnostic strategies, this report focuses on the design of a Recursive Least-Squares (RLS) based estimator for identification over a group of devices connected to the cloud. The proposed approach, that relies on Node-to-Cloud-to-Node (N2C2N) transmissions, is designed so that: (i) estimates of the unknown parameters are computed locally and (ii) the local estimates are refined on the cloud. The proposed approach requires minimal changes to local (pre-existing) RLS estimators. version:1
arxiv-1709-07969 | Optimal-power Configurations for Hover Solutions in Mono-spinners | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07969 | id:1709.07969 author:Mojtaba Hedayatpour, Mehran Mehrandezh, Farrokh Janabi-Sharifi category:math.DS cs.RO math.OC  published:2017-09-22 summary:Rotary-wing flying machines draw attention within the UAV community for their in-place hovering capability, and recently, holonomic motion over fixed-wings. However, they still fall behind in terms of the flight time, power consumption, and safety for centrally-powered and redundant multi-copters have been suggested and studied. In this paper, we investigate about the power-optimality in a mono-spinner, i.e., a class of rotary-wing UAVs with one rotor only, whose main body has a streamlined shape for producing additional lift when counter-spinning the rotor. We provide a detailed dynamic model of our mono-spinner. Two configurations are studied: (1) a symmetric configuration, in which the rotor is aligned with the fuselage's COM, and (2) an asymmetric configuration, in which the rotor is located with an offset from the fuselage's COM. While the former can generate an in-place hovering flight condition, the latter can achieve trajectory tacking in 3D space by resolving the yaw and precession rates. Furthermore, it is shown that by introducing a tilting angle between the rotor and the fuselage, within the asymmetric design, one can further minimize the power consumption without compromising the overall stability. It is shown that an energy optimal solution can be achieved through proper aerodynamic design of the mono-spinner for the first time. version:1
arxiv-1601-05484 | Analysis and Observations from the First Amazon Picking Challenge | http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.05484 | id:1601.05484 author:Nikolaus Correll, Kostas E. Bekris, Dmitry Berenson, Oliver Brock, Albert Causo, Kris Hauser, Kei Okada, Alberto Rodriguez, Joseph M. Romano, Peter R. Wurman category:cs.RO  published:2016-01-21 summary:This paper presents a overview of the inaugural Amazon Picking Challenge along with a summary of a survey conducted among the 26 participating teams. The challenge goal was to design an autonomous robot to pick items from a warehouse shelf. This task is currently performed by human workers, and there is hope that robots can someday help increase efficiency and throughput while lowering cost. We report on a 28-question survey posed to the teams to learn about each team's background, mechanism design, perception apparatus, planning and control approach. We identify trends in this data, correlate it with each team's success in the competition, and discuss observations and lessons learned based on survey results and the authors' personal experiences during the challenge. version:3
arxiv-1709-09634 | Real time text localization for Indoor Mobile Robot Navigation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.09634 | id:1709.09634 author:Kazem Qazanfari, Saeed Shiri category:cs.RO eess.IV  published:2017-09-22 summary:Scene text is an important feature to be extracted, especially in vision-based mobile robot navigation as many potential landmarks such as nameplates and information signs contain text. In this paper, a novel two-step text localization method for Indoor Mobile Robot Navigation is introduced. This method is based on morphological operators and machine learning techniques and can be used in real time environments. The proposed method has two steps. At First, a new set of morphological operators is applied with a particular sequence to extract high contrast areas that have high probability of text existence. Using of morphological operators has many advantages such as: high computation speed, being invariant to several geometrical transformations like translation, rotations, and scaling, and being able to extract all areas containing text. After extracting text candidate regions, a set of nine features are extracted for accurate detection and deletion of the regions that don't have text. These features are descriptors for texture properties and are computed in real time. Then, we use a SVM classifier to detect the existence of text in the region. Performance of the proposed algorithm is compared against a number of widely used text localization algorithms and the results show that this method can quickly and effectively localize and extract text regions from real scenes and can be used in mobile robot navigation under an indoor environment to detect text based landmarks. version:1
arxiv-1709-07957 | Tracking Human Pose During Robot-Assisted Dressing using Single-Axis Capacitive Proximity Sensing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07957 | id:1709.07957 author:Zackory Erickson, Maggie Collier, Ariel Kapusta, Charles C. Kemp category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-22 summary:Dressing is a fundamental task of everyday living and robots offer an opportunity to assist people with motor impairments. While several robotic systems have explored robot-assisted dressing, few have considered how a robot can manage errors in human pose estimation, or adapt to human motion in real time during dressing assistance. In addition, estimating pose changes due to human motion can be challenging with vision-based techniques since dressing is often intended to visually occlude the body with clothing. We present a method to track a person's pose in real time using capacitive proximity sensing. This sensing approach gives direct estimates of distance with low latency, has a high signal-to-noise ratio, and has low computational requirements. Using our method, a robot can adjust for errors in the estimated pose of a person and physically follow the contours and movements of the person while providing dressing assistance. As part of an evaluation of our method, the robot successfully pulled the sleeve of a hospital gown and a cardigan onto the right arms of 10 human participants, despite arm motions and large errors in the initially estimated pose of the person's arm. We also show that a capacitive sensor is unaffected by visual occlusion of the body and can sense a person's body through fabric clothing. version:1
arxiv-1709-07941 | Efficiently Discovering Locally Exceptional yet Globally Representative Subgroups | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07941 | id:1709.07941 author:Janis Kalofolias, Mario Boley, Jilles Vreeken category:cs.DB cs.AI  published:2017-09-22 summary:Subgroup discovery is a local pattern mining technique to find interpretable descriptions of sub-populations that stand out on a given target variable. That is, these sub-populations are exceptional with regard to the global distribution. In this paper we argue that in many applications, such as scientific discovery, subgroups are only useful if they are additionally representative of the global distribution with regard to a control variable. That is, when the distribution of this control variable is the same, or almost the same, as over the whole data. We formalise this objective function and give an efficient algorithm to compute its tight optimistic estimator for the case of a numeric target and a binary control variable. This enables us to use the branch-and-bound framework to efficiently discover the top-$k$ subgroups that are both exceptional as well as representative. Experimental evaluation on a wide range of datasets shows that with this algorithm we discover meaningful representative patterns and are up to orders of magnitude faster in terms of node evaluations as well as time. version:1
arxiv-1709-07936 | A Unified Approach to Configuration-based Dynamic Analysis of Quadcopters for Optimal Stability | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07936 | id:1709.07936 author:Mojtaba Hedayatpour, Mehran Mehrandezh, Farrokh Janabi-Sharifi category:math.DS cs.RO math.OC  published:2017-09-22 summary:A special type of rotary-wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), called Quadcopter have prevailed to the civilian use for the past decade. They have gained significant amount of attention within the UAV community for their redundancy and ease of control, despite the fact that they fall under an under-actuated system category. They come in a variety of configurations. The "+" and "x" configurations were introduced first. Literature pertinent to these two configurations is vast. However, in this paper, we define 6 additional possible configurations for a Quadcopter that can be built under either "+" or "x" setup. These configurations can be achieved by changing the angle that the axis of rotation for rotors make with the main body, i.e., fuselage. This would also change the location of the COM with respect to the propellers which can add to the overall stability. A comprehensive dynamic model for all these configurations is developed for the first time. The overall stability for these configurations are addressed. In particular, it is shown that one configuration can lead to the most statically-stable platform by adopting damping motion in Roll/Pitch/Yaw, which is described for the first time to the best of our knowledge. version:1
arxiv-1710-01691 | Context Embedding Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.01691 | id:1710.01691 author:Kun ho Kim, Oisin Mac Aodha, Pietro Perona category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-09-22 summary:Low dimensional embeddings that capture the main variations of interest in collections of data are important for many applications. One way to construct these embeddings is to acquire estimates of similarity from the crowd. However, similarity is a multi-dimensional concept that varies from individual to individual. Existing models for learning embeddings from the crowd typically make simplifying assumptions such as all individuals estimate similarity using the same criteria, the list of criteria is known in advance, or that the crowd workers are not influenced by the data that they see. To overcome these limitations we introduce Context Embedding Networks (CENs). In addition to learning interpretable embeddings from images, CENs also model worker biases for different attributes along with the visual context i.e. the visual attributes highlighted by a set of images. Experiments on two noisy crowd annotated datasets show that modeling both worker bias and visual context results in more interpretable embeddings compared to existing approaches. version:1
arxiv-1709-07871 | FiLM: Visual Reasoning with a General Conditioning Layer | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07871 | id:1709.07871 author:Ethan Perez, Florian Strub, Harm de Vries, Vincent Dumoulin, Aaron Courville category:cs.CV cs.AI cs.CL stat.ML  published:2017-09-22 summary:We introduce a general-purpose conditioning method for neural networks called FiLM: Feature-wise Linear Modulation. FiLM layers influence neural network computation via a simple, feature-wise affine transformation based on conditioning information. We show that FiLM layers are highly effective for visual reasoning - answering image-related questions which require a multi-step, high-level process - a task which has proven difficult for standard deep learning methods that do not explicitly model reasoning. Specifically, we show on visual reasoning tasks that FiLM layers 1) halve state-of-the-art error for the CLEVR benchmark, 2) modulate features in a coherent manner, 3) are robust to ablations and architectural modifications, and 4) generalize well to challenging, new data from few examples or even zero-shot. version:1
arxiv-1709-07848 | Generalized Quantum Reinforcement Learning with Quantum Technologies | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07848 | id:1709.07848 author:F. A. Cárdenas-López, L. Lamata, J. C. Retamal, E. Solano category:quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-09-22 summary:We propose a protocol to perform generalized quantum reinforcement learning with quantum technologies. At variance with recent results on quantum reinforcement learning with superconducting circuits [L. Lamata, Sci. Rep. 7, 1609 (2017)], in our current protocol coherent feedback during the learning process is not required, enabling its implementation in a wide variety of quantum systems. We consider diverse possible scenarios for an agent, an environment, and a register that connects them, involving multiqubit and multilevel systems, as well as open-system dynamics. We finally propose possible implementations of this protocol in trapped ions and superconducting circuits. The field of quantum reinforcement learning with quantum technologies will enable enhanced quantum control, as well as more efficient machine learning calculations. version:1
arxiv-1708-09032 | Plausibility and probability in deductive reasoning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.09032 | id:1708.09032 author:Andrew MacFie category:cs.AI  published:2017-08-29 summary:We consider the problem of rational uncertainty about unproven mathematical statements, which G\"odel and others have remarked on. Using Bayesian-inspired arguments we build a normative model of fair bets under deductive uncertainty which draws from both probability and the theory of algorithms. We comment on connections to Zeilberger's notion of "semi-rigorous proofs", particularly that inherent subjectivity is an obstacle. version:2
arxiv-1709-07842 | Bayesian Optimization for Parameter Tuning of the XOR Neural Network | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07842 | id:1709.07842 author:Lawrence Stewart, Mark Stalzer category:stat.ML cs.AI  published:2017-09-22 summary:When applying Machine Learning techniques to problems, one must select model parameters to ensure that the system converges but also does not become stuck at the objective function's local minimum. Tuning these parameters becomes a non-trivial task for large models and it is not always apparent if the user has found the optimal parameters. We aim to automate the process of tuning a Neural Network, (where only a limited number of parameter search attempts are available) by implementing Bayesian Optimization. In particular, by assigning Gaussian Process Priors to the parameter space, we utilize Bayesian Optimization to tune an Artificial Neural Network used to learn the XOR function, with the result of achieving higher prediction accuracy. version:1
arxiv-1707-09616 | Owl: A General-Purpose Numerical Library in OCaml | http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.09616 | id:1707.09616 author:Liang Wang category:cs.MS cs.DC cs.LO  published:2017-07-30 summary:Owl is a new numerical library developed in the OCaml language. It focuses on providing a comprehensive set of high-level numerical functions so that developers can quickly build up data analytical applications. In this abstract, we will present Owl's design, core components, and its key functionality. version:2
arxiv-1709-07417 | Neural Optimizer Search with Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07417 | id:1709.07417 author:Irwan Bello, Barret Zoph, Vijay Vasudevan, Quoc V. Le category:cs.AI cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-09-21 summary:We present an approach to automate the process of discovering optimization methods, with a focus on deep learning architectures. We train a Recurrent Neural Network controller to generate a string in a domain specific language that describes a mathematical update equation based on a list of primitive functions, such as the gradient, running average of the gradient, etc. The controller is trained with Reinforcement Learning to maximize the performance of a model after a few epochs. On CIFAR-10, our method discovers several update rules that are better than many commonly used optimizers, such as Adam, RMSProp, or SGD with and without Momentum on a ConvNet model. We introduce two new optimizers, named PowerSign and AddSign, which we show transfer well and improve training on a variety of different tasks and architectures, including ImageNet classification and Google's neural machine translation system. version:2
arxiv-1709-07808 | Quantum Memristors in Quantum Photonics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07808 | id:1709.07808 author:M. Sanz, L. Lamata, E. Solano category:quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cs.AI cs.NE stat.ML  published:2017-09-22 summary:We propose a method to build quantum memristors in quantum photonic platforms. We firstly design an effective beam splitter, which is tunable in real-time, by means of a Mach-Zehnder-type array with two equal 50:50 beam splitters and a tunable retarder, which allows us to control its reflectivity. Then, we show that this tunable beam splitter, when equipped with weak measurements and classical feedback, behaves as a quantum memristor. Indeed, in order to prove its quantumness, we show how to codify quantum information in the coherent beams. Moreover, we estimate the memory capability of the quantum memristor. Finally, we show the feasibility of the proposed setup in integrated quantum photonics. version:1
arxiv-1709-07796 | On overfitting and asymptotic bias in batch reinforcement learning with partial observability | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07796 | id:1709.07796 author:Vincent Francois-Lavet, Damien Ernst, Raphael Fonteneau category:stat.ML cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-09-22 summary:This paper stands in the context of reinforcement learning with partial observability and limited data. In this setting, we focus on the tradeoff between asymptotic bias (suboptimality with unlimited data) and overfitting (additional suboptimality due to limited data), and theoretically show that while potentially increasing the asymptotic bias, a smaller state representation decreases the risk of overfitting. Our analysis relies on expressing the quality of a state representation by bounding L1 error terms of the associated belief states. Theoretical results are empirically illustrated when the state representation is a truncated history of observations. Finally, we also discuss and empirically illustrate how using function approximators and adapting the discount factor may enhance the tradeoff between asymptotic bias and overfitting. version:1
arxiv-1709-07791 | Humanoid Robots as Agents of Human Consciousness Expansion | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07791 | id:1709.07791 author:Ben Goertzel, Julia Mossbridge, Eddie Monroe, David Hanson, Gino Yu category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-22 summary:The "Loving AI" project involves developing software enabling humanoid robots to interact with people in loving and compassionate ways, and to promote people' self-understanding and self-transcendence. Currently the project centers on the Hanson Robotics robot "Sophia" -- specifically, on supplying Sophia with personality content and cognitive, linguistic, perceptual and behavioral content aimed at enabling loving interactions supportive of human self-transcendence. In September 2017 a small pilot study was conducted, involving the Sophia robot leading human subjects through dialogues and exercises focused on meditation, visualization and relaxation. The pilot was an apparent success, qualitatively demonstrating the viability of the approach and the ability of appropriate human-robot interaction to increase human well-being and advance human consciousness. version:1
arxiv-1709-07781 | OpenCL Actors - Adding Data Parallelism to Actor-based Programming with CAF | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07781 | id:1709.07781 author:Raphael Hiesgen, Dominik Charousset, Thomas C. Schmidt category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-22 summary:The actor model of computation has been designed for a seamless support of concurrency and distribution. However, it remains unspecific about data parallel program flows, while available processing power of modern many core hardware such as graphics processing units (GPUs) or coprocessors increases the relevance of data parallelism for general-purpose computation. In this work, we introduce OpenCL-enabled actors to the C++ Actor Framework (CAF). This offers a high level interface for accessing any OpenCL device without leaving the actor paradigm. The new type of actor is integrated into the runtime environment of CAF and gives rise to transparent message passing in distributed systems on heterogeneous hardware. Following the actor logic in CAF, OpenCL kernels can be composed while encapsulated in C++ actors, hence operate in a multi-stage fashion on data resident at the GPU. Developers are thus enabled to build complex data parallel programs from primitives without leaving the actor paradigm, nor sacrificing performance. Our evaluations on commodity GPUs, an Nvidia TESLA, and an Intel PHI reveal the expected linear scaling behavior when offloading larger workloads. For sub-second duties, the efficiency of offloading was found to largely differ between devices. Moreover, our findings indicate a negligible overhead over programming with the native OpenCL API. version:1
arxiv-1709-07741 | Subjective Simulation as a Notion of Morphism for Composing Concurrent Resources | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07741 | id:1709.07741 author:Aleksandar Nanevski, Anindya Banerjee, Germán Andrés Delbianco category:cs.PL cs.DC cs.LO  published:2017-09-22 summary:Recent approaches to verifying programs in separation logics for concurrency have used state transition systems (STSs) to specify the atomic operations of programs. A key challenge in the setting has been to compose such STSs into larger ones, while enabling programs specified under one STS to be linked to a larger one, without reverification. This paper develops a notion of morphism between two STSs which permits such lifting. The morphisms are a constructive form of simulation between the STSs, and lead to a general and concise proof system. We illustrate the concept and its generality on several disparate examples, including staged construction of a readers/writers lock and its proof, and of proofs about quiescence when concurrent programs are executed without external interference. version:1
arxiv-1708-05263 | The Size of a Hyperball in a Conceptual Space | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.05263 | id:1708.05263 author:Lucas Bechberger category:cs.AI  published:2017-07-04 summary:The cognitive framework of conceptual spaces [3] provides geometric means for representing knowledge. A conceptual space is a high-dimensional space whose dimensions are partitioned into so-called domains. Within each domain, the Euclidean metric is used to compute distances. Distances in the overall space are computed by applying the Manhattan metric to the intra-domain distances. Instances are represented as points in this space and concepts are represented by regions. In this paper, we derive a formula for the size of a hyperball under the combined metric of a conceptual space. One can think of such a hyperball as the set of all points having a certain minimal similarity to the hyperball's center. version:4
arxiv-1709-07700 | Experimenting with the p4est library for AMR simulations of two-phase flows | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07700 | id:1709.07700 author:Florence Drui, Alexandru Fikl, Pierre Kestener, Samuel Kokh, Adam Larat, Vincent Le Chenadec, Marc Massot category:math.NA cs.DC cs.DM physics.flu-dyn  published:2017-09-22 summary:Many physical problems involve spatial and temporal inhomogeneities that require a very fine discretization in order to be accurately simulated. Using an adaptive mesh, a high level of resolution is used in the appropriate areas while keeping a coarse mesh elsewhere. This idea allows to save time and computations, but represents a challenge for distributed-memory environments. The MARS project (for Multiphase Adaptative Refinement Solver) intends to assess the parallel library p4est for adaptive mesh, in a case of a finite volume scheme applied to two-phase flows. Besides testing the library's performances, particularly for load balancing, its user-friendliness in use and implementation are also exhibited here. First promising 3D simulations are even presented. version:1
arxiv-1709-07696 | Optimization of the Waiting Time for H-R Coordination | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07696 | id:1709.07696 author:Roy Someshwar, Yoav Kerner category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-22 summary:An analytical model of Human-Robot (H-R) coordination is presented for a Human-Robot system executing a collaborative task in which a high level of synchronization among the agents is desired. The influencing parameters and decision variables that affect the waiting time of the collaborating agents were analyzed. The performance of the model was evaluated based on the costs of the waiting times of each of the agents at the pre-defined spatial point of handover. The model was tested for two cases of dynamic H-R coordination scenarios. Results indicate that this analytical model can be used as a tool for designing an H-R system that optimizes the agent waiting time thereby increasing the joint-efficiency of the system and making coordination fluent and natural. version:1
arxiv-1709-06041 | Endo-VMFuseNet: Deep Visual-Magnetic Sensor Fusion Approach for Uncalibrated, Unsynchronized and Asymmetric Endoscopic Capsule Robot Localization Data | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06041 | id:1709.06041 author:Mehmet Turan, Yasin Almalioglu, Hunter Gilbert, Alp Eren Sari, Ufuk Soylu, Metin Sitti category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-18 summary:In the last decade, researchers and medical device companies have made major advances towards transforming passive capsule endoscopes into active medical robots. One of the major challenges is to endow capsule robots with accurate perception of the environment inside the human body, which will provide necessary information and enable improved medical procedures. We extend the success of deep learning approaches from various research fields to the problem of uncalibrated, asynchronous, and asymmetric sensor fusion for endoscopic capsule robots. The results performed on real pig stomach datasets show that our method achieves sub-millimeter precision for both translational and rotational movements and contains various advantages over traditional sensor fusion techniques. version:2
arxiv-1709-07689 | Real-time 3D Shape Instantiation from Single Fluoroscopy Projection for Fenestrated Stent Graft Deployment | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07689 | id:1709.07689 author:Xiao-Yun Zhou, Jianyu Lin, Celia Riga, Guang-Zhong Yang, Su-Lin Lee category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-09-22 summary:Robot-assisted deployment of fenestrated stent grafts in Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair (FEVAR) requires accurate geometrical alignment. Currently, this process is guided by 2D fluoroscopy, which is uninformative and error prone. In this paper, a real-time framework is proposed to instantiate the 3D shape of a fenestrated stent graft based on only a single low-dose 2D fluoroscopic image. Firstly, the fenestrated stent graft was placed with markers. Secondly, the 3D pose of each stent segment was instantiated by the RPnP (Robust Perspective-n-Point) method. Thirdly, the 3D shape of the whole stent graft was instantiated via graft gap interpolation. Focal-Unet was proposed to segment the markers from 2D fluoroscopic images to achieve semi-automatic marker detection. The proposed framework was validated on five patient-specific 3D printed phantoms of aortic aneurysms and three stent grafts with new marker placements, showing an average distance error of 1-3mm and an average angle error of 4 degree. version:1
arxiv-1709-07688 | Towards Decentralised Resilient Community Cloud Infrastructures | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07688 | id:1709.07688 author:Arjuna Sathiaseelan, Mennan Selimi, Carlos Molina, Adisorn Lertsinsrubtavee, Leandro Navarro, Felix Freitag, Fernando Ramos, Roger Baig category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-22 summary:Recent years have seen a trend towards decentralisation - from initiatives on decentralized web to decentralized network infrastructures (e.g community networks). In this position paper, we present an architectural vision for decentralising cloud service infrastructures. Our vision is on the notion of community cloud infrastructures on top of decentralised access infrastructures i.e. community networks, using resources pooled from the community. Our architectural vision takes into consideration some of the fundamental challenges of integrating the current state of the art virtualisation technologies such as Software Defined Networking (SDN) into community infrastructures which are highly unreliable. Our proposed design goal is to include lightweight virtualization and fault tolerance mechanisms into the architecture to ensure sufficient level of reliability to support critical applications. version:1
arxiv-1709-07665 | Semantic Segmentation from Limited Training Data | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07665 | id:1709.07665 author:A. Milan, T. Pham, K. Vijay, D. Morrison, A. W. Tow, L. Liu, J. Erskine, R. Grinover, A. Gurman, T. Hunn, N. Kelly-Boxall, D. Lee, M. McTaggart, G. Rallos, A. Razjigaev, T. Rowntree, T. Shen, R. Smith, S. Wade-McCue, Z. Zhuang, C. Lehnert, G. Lin, I. Reid, P. Corke, J. Leitner category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-09-22 summary:We present our approach for robotic perception in cluttered scenes that led to winning the recent Amazon Robotics Challenge (ARC) 2017. Next to small objects with shiny and transparent surfaces, the biggest challenge of the 2017 competition was the introduction of unseen categories. In contrast to traditional approaches which require large collections of annotated data and many hours of training, the task here was to obtain a robust perception pipeline with only few minutes of data acquisition and training time. To that end, we present two strategies that we explored. One is a deep metric learning approach that works in three separate steps: semantic-agnostic boundary detection, patch classification and pixel-wise voting. The other is a fully-supervised semantic segmentation approach with efficient dataset collection. We conduct an extensive analysis of the two methods on our ARC 2017 dataset. Interestingly, only few examples of each class are sufficient to fine-tune even very deep convolutional neural networks for this specific task. version:1
arxiv-1709-07643 | OptLayer - Practical Constrained Optimization for Deep Reinforcement Learning in the Real World | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07643 | id:1709.07643 author:Tu-Hoa Pham, Giovanni De Magistris, Ryuki Tachibana category:cs.RO cs.AI  published:2017-09-22 summary:While deep reinforcement learning techniques have recently produced considerable achievements on many decision-making problems, their use in robotics has largely been limited to simulated worlds or restricted motions, since unconstrained trial-and-error interactions in the real world can have undesirable consequences for the robot or its environment. To overcome such limitations, we propose a novel reinforcement learning architecture, OptLayer, that takes as inputs possibly unsafe actions predicted by a neural network and outputs the closest actions that satisfy chosen constraints. While learning control policies often requires carefully crafted rewards and penalties while exploring the range of possible actions, OptLayer ensures that only safe actions are actually executed and unsafe predictions are penalized during training. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on robot reaching tasks, both simulated and in the real world. version:1
arxiv-1709-07642 | Code Attention: Translating Code to Comments by Exploiting Domain Features | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07642 | id:1709.07642 author:Wenhao Zheng, Hong-Yu Zhou, Ming Li, Jianxin Wu category:cs.AI cs.CL  published:2017-09-22 summary:Appropriate comments of code snippets provide insight for code functionality, which are helpful for program comprehension. However, due to the great cost of authoring with the comments, many code projects do not contain adequate comments. Automatic comment generation techniques have been proposed to generate comments from pieces of code in order to alleviate the human efforts in annotating the code. Most existing approaches attempt to exploit certain correlations (usually manually given) between code and generated comments, which could be easily violated if the coding patterns change and hence the performance of comment generation declines. In this paper, we first build C2CGit, a large dataset from open projects in GitHub, which is more than 20$\times$ larger than existing datasets. Then we propose a new attention module called Code Attention to translate code to comments, which is able to utilize the domain features of code snippets, such as symbols and identifiers. We make ablation studies to determine effects of different parts in Code Attention. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed module has better performance over existing approaches in both BLEU and METEOR. version:1
arxiv-1709-07641 | Characterization of a RS-LiDAR for 3D Perception | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07641 | id:1709.07641 author:Zhe Wang, Yang Liu, Qinghai Liao, Haoyang Ye, Ming Liu, Lujia Wang category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-22 summary:High precision 3D LiDARs are still expensive and hard to acquire. This paper presents the characteristics of RS-LiDAR, a model of low-cost LiDAR with sufficient supplies, in comparison with VLP-16. The paper also provides a set of evaluations to analyze the characterizations and performances of LiDARs sensors. This work analyzes multiple properties, such as drift effects, distance effects, color effects and sensor orientation effects, in the context of 3D perception. By comparing with Velodyne LiDAR, we found RS-LiDAR as a cheaper and acquirable substitute of VLP-16 with similar efficiency. version:1
arxiv-1601-02800 | Inferring Energy Bounds via Static Program Analysis and Evolutionary Modeling of Basic Blocks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1601.02800 | id:1601.02800 author:Umer Liqat, Zorana Bankovic, Pedro Lopez-Garcia, Manuel V. Hermenegildo category:cs.DC cs.PL  published:2016-01-12 summary:The ever increasing number and complexity of energy-bound devices (such as the ones used in Internet of Things applications, smart phones, and mission critical systems) pose an important challenge on techniques to optimize their energy consumption and to verify that they will perform their function within the available energy budget. In this work we address this challenge from the software point of view and propose a novel parametric approach to estimating tight bounds on the energy consumed by program executions that are practical for their application to energy verification and optimization. Our approach divides a program into basic (branchless) blocks and estimates the maximal and minimal energy consumption for each block using an evolutionary algorithm. Then it combines the obtained values according to the program control flow, using static analysis, to infer functions that give both upper and lower bounds on the energy consumption of the whole program and its procedures as functions on input data sizes. We have tested our approach on (C-like) embedded programs running on the XMOS hardware platform. However, our method is general enough to be applied to other microprocessor architectures and programming languages. The bounds obtained by our prototype implementation can be tight while remaining on the safe side of budgets in practice, as shown by our experimental evaluation. version:2
arxiv-1709-07615 | Predicting Runtime Distributions using Deep Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07615 | id:1709.07615 author:Katharina Eggensperger, Marius Lindauer, Frank Hutter category:cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-09-22 summary:Many state-of-the-art algorithms for solving hard combinatorial problems include elements of stochasticity that lead to high variations in runtime, even for a fixed problem instance, across runs with different pseudo-random number seeds. Knowledge about the runtime distributions (RTDs) of algorithms on given problem instances can be exploited in various meta-algorithmic procedures, such as algorithm selection, portfolios, and randomized restarts. Previous work has shown that machine learning can be used to individually predict mean, median and variance of RTDs. To establish a new state-of-the-art in predicting RTDs, we demonstrate that the parameters of an RTD should be learned jointly and that neural networks can do this well by directly optimizing the likelihood of an RTD given runtime observations. In an empirical study involving four algorithms for SAT solving and AI planning, we show that our neural networks predict the true RTDs of unseen instances better than previous methods. As an exemplary application of RTD predictions, we show that our RTD models also yield good predictions of running these algorithms in parallel. version:1
arxiv-1709-07610 | Efficient Nearest-Neighbor Search for Dynamical Systems with Nonholonomic Constraints | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07610 | id:1709.07610 author:Valerio Varricchio, Brian Paden, Dmitry Yershov, Emilio Frazzoli category:cs.CG cs.CC cs.RO cs.SY  published:2017-09-22 summary:Nearest-neighbor search dominates the asymptotic complexity of sampling-based motion planning algorithms and is often addressed with k-d tree data structures. While it is generally believed that the expected complexity of nearest-neighbor queries is $O(log(N))$ in the size of the tree, this paper reveals that when a classic k-d tree approach is used with sub-Riemannian metrics, the expected query complexity is in fact $\Theta(N^p \log(N))$ for a number $p \in [0, 1)$ determined by the degree of nonholonomy of the system. These metrics arise naturally in nonholonomic mechanical systems, including classic wheeled robot models. To address this negative result, we propose novel k-d tree build and query strategies tailored to sub-Riemannian metrics and demonstrate significant improvements in the running time of nearest-neighbor search queries. version:1
arxiv-1709-07605 | mts: a light framework for parallelizing tree search codes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07605 | id:1709.07605 author:David Avis, Charles Jordan category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-22 summary:We describe version 0.1 of mts, a generic framework for parallelizing certain types of tree search programs using a single common wrapper. This complements a previous tutorial that focused on using a preliminary version of mts. mts supports sharing information between processes which is important for applications such as satisfiability testing and branch-and-bound. No parallelization is implemented in the legacy single processor code minimizing the changes needed and simplying debugging. mts is written in C, uses MPI for parallelization and can be used on a network of computers. As examples we parallelize two simple existing reverse search codes, generating topological sorts and generating spanning trees of a graph, and two codes for satisfiability testing. We give experimental results comparing the parallel codes with other codes for the same problems. version:1
arxiv-1709-07604 | A Comprehensive Survey of Graph Embedding: Problems, Techniques and Applications | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07604 | id:1709.07604 author:Hongyun Cai, Vincent W. Zheng, Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-22 summary:Graph is an important data representation which appears in a wide diversity of real-world scenarios. Effective graph analytics provides users a deeper understanding of what is behind the data, and thus can benefit a lot of useful applications such as node classification, node recommendation, link prediction, etc. However, most graph analytics methods suffer the high computation and space cost. Graph embedding is an effective yet efficient way to solve the graph analytics problem. It converts the graph data into a low dimensional space in which the graph structural information and graph properties are maximally preserved. In this survey, we conduct a comprehensive review of the literature in graph embedding. We first introduce the formal definition of graph embedding as well as the related concepts. After that, we propose two taxonomies of graph embedding which correspond to what challenges exist in different graph embedding problem settings and how the existing work address these challenges in their solutions. Finally, we summarize the applications that graph embedding enables and suggest four promising future research directions in terms of computation efficiency, problem settings, techniques and application scenarios. version:1
arxiv-1709-07597 | Inverse Reinforcement Learning with Conditional Choice Probabilities | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07597 | id:1709.07597 author:Mohit Sharma, Kris M. Kitani, Joachim Groeger category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-22 summary:We make an important connection to existing results in econometrics to describe an alternative formulation of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). In particular, we describe an algorithm using Conditional Choice Probabilities (CCP), which are maximum likelihood estimates of the policy estimated from expert demonstrations, to solve the IRL problem. Using the language of structural econometrics, we re-frame the optimal decision problem and introduce an alternative representation of value functions due to (Hotz and Miller 1993). In addition to presenting the theoretical connections that bridge the IRL literature between Economics and Robotics, the use of CCPs also has the practical benefit of reducing the computational cost of solving the IRL problem. Specifically, under the CCP representation, we show how one can avoid repeated calls to the dynamic programming subroutine typically used in IRL. We show via extensive experimentation on standard IRL benchmarks that CCP-IRL is able to outperform MaxEnt-IRL, with as much as a 5x speedup and without compromising on the quality of the recovered reward function. version:1
arxiv-1709-07594 | A Comparative Study of Association Rule Mining Algorithms on Grid and Cloud Platform | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07594 | id:1709.07594 author:Sudhakar Singh, Rakhi Garg, P. K. Mishra category:cs.DC cs.DB  published:2017-09-22 summary:Association rule mining is a time consuming process due to involving both data intensive and computation intensive nature. In order to mine large volume of data and to enhance the scalability and performance of existing sequential association rule mining algorithms, parallel and distributed algorithms are developed. These traditional parallel and distributed algorithms are based on homogeneous platform and are not lucrative for heterogeneous platform such as grid and cloud. This requires design of new algorithms which address the issues of good data set partition and distribution, load balancing strategy, optimization of communication and synchronization technique among processors in such heterogeneous system. Grid and cloud are the emerging platform for distributed data processing and various association rule mining algorithms have been proposed on such platforms. This survey article integrates the brief architectural aspect of distributed system, various recent approaches of grid based and cloud based association rule mining algorithms with comparative perception. We differentiate between approaches of association rule mining algorithms developed on these architectures on the basis of data locality, programming paradigm, fault tolerance, communication cost, partition and distribution of data sets. Although it is not complete in order to cover all algorithms, yet it can be very useful for the new researchers working in the direction of distributed association rule mining algorithms. version:1
arxiv-1709-07581 | Hierarchical Detail Enhancing Mesh-Based Shape Generation with 3D Generative Adversarial Network | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07581 | id:1709.07581 author:Chiyu "Max" Jiang, Philip Marcus category:cs.GR cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-09-22 summary:Automatic mesh-based shape generation is of great interest across a wide range of disciplines, from industrial design to gaming, computer graphics and various other forms of digital art. While most traditional methods focus on primitive based model generation, advances in deep learning made it possible to learn 3-dimensional geometric shape representations in an end-to-end manner. However, most current deep learning based frameworks focus on the representation and generation of voxel and point-cloud based shapes, making it not directly applicable to design and graphics communities. This study addresses the needs for automatic generation of mesh-based geometries, and propose a novel framework that utilizes signed distance function representation that generates detail preserving three-dimensional surface mesh by a deep learning based approach. version:1
arxiv-1709-07576 | EB-GLS: An Improved Guided Local Search Based on the Big Valley Structure | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07576 | id:1709.07576 author:Jialong Shi, Qingfu Zhang, Edward Tsang category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-22 summary:Local search is a basic building block in memetic algorithms. Guided Local Search (GLS) can improve the efficiency of local search. By changing the guide function, GLS guides a local search to escape from locally optimal solutions and find better solutions. The key component of GLS is its penalizing mechanism which determines which feature is selected to penalize when the search is trapped in a locally optimal solution. The original GLS penalizing mechanism only makes use of the cost and the current penalty value of each feature. It is well known that many combinatorial optimization problems have a big valley structure, i.e., the better a solution is, the more the chance it is closer to a globally optimal solution. This paper proposes to use big valley structure assumption to improve the GLS penalizing mechanism. An improved GLS algorithm called Elite Biased GLS (EB-GLS) is proposed. EB-GLS records and maintains an elite solution as an estimate of the globally optimal solutions, and reduces the chance of penalizing the features in this solution. We have systematically tested the proposed algorithm on the symmetric traveling salesman problem. Experimental results show that EB-GLS is significantly better than GLS. version:1
arxiv-1708-04033 | Deep Reinforcement Learning for High Precision Assembly Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.04033 | id:1708.04033 author:Tadanobu Inoue, Giovanni De Magistris, Asim Munawar, Tsuyoshi Yokoya, Ryuki Tachibana category:cs.RO cs.AI  published:2017-08-14 summary:High precision assembly of mechanical parts requires accuracy exceeding the robot precision. Conventional part mating methods used in the current manufacturing requires tedious tuning of numerous parameters before deployment. We show how the robot can successfully perform a tight clearance peg-in-hole task through training a recurrent neural network with reinforcement learning. In addition to saving the manual effort, the proposed technique also shows robustness against position and angle errors for the peg-in-hole task. The neural network learns to take the optimal action by observing the robot sensors to estimate the system state. The advantages of our proposed method is validated experimentally on a 7-axis articulated robot arm. version:2
arxiv-1709-07563 | EmuFog: Extensible and Scalable Emulation of Large-Scale Fog Computing Infrastructures | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07563 | id:1709.07563 author:Ruben Mayer, Leon Graser, Harshit Gupta, Enrique Saurez, Umakishore Ramachandran category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-22 summary:The diversity of Fog Computing deployment models and the lack of publicly available Fog infrastructure makes the design of an efficient application or resource management policy a challenging task. Such research often requires a test framework that facilitates the experimental evaluation of an application or protocol design in a repeatable and controllable manner. In this paper, we present EmuFog---an extensible emulation framework tailored for Fog Computing scenarios---that enables the from-scratch design of Fog Computing infrastructures and the emulation of real applications and workloads. EmuFog enables researchers to design the network topology according to the use-case, embed Fog Computing nodes in the topology and run Docker-based applications on those nodes connected by an emulated network. Each of the sub-modules of EmuFog are easily extensible, although EmuFog provides a default implementation for each of them. The scalability and efficacy of EmuFog are evaluated both on synthetic and real-world network topologies. version:1
arxiv-1709-07558 | FogStore: Toward a Distributed Data Store for Fog Computing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07558 | id:1709.07558 author:Ruben Mayer, Harshit Gupta, Enrique Saurez, Umakishore Ramachandran category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-22 summary:Stateful applications and virtualized network functions (VNFs) can benefit from state externalization to increase their reliability, scalability, and inter-operability. To keep and share the externalized state, distributed data stores (DDSs) are a powerful tool allowing for the management of classical trade-offs in consistency, availability and partitioning tolerance. With the advent of Fog and Edge Computing, stateful applications and VNFs are pushed from the data centers toward the network edge. This poses new challenges on DDSs that are tailored to a deployment in Cloud data centers. In this paper, we propose two novel design goals for DDSs that are tailored to Fog Computing: (1) Fog-aware replica placement, and (2) context-sensitive differential consistency. To realize those design goals on top of existing DDSs, we propose the FogStore system. FogStore manages the needed adaptations in replica placement and consistency management transparently, so that existing DDSs can be plugged into the system. To show the benefits of FogStore, we perform a set of evaluations using the Yahoo Cloud Serving Benchmark. version:1
arxiv-1709-07555 | ROMANO: A Novel Overlay Lightweight Communication Protocol for Unified Control and Sensing of a Network of Robots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07555 | id:1709.07555 author:Pradipta Ghosh, Jason A. Tran, Daniel Dsouza, Nora Ayanian, Bhaskar Krishnamachari category:cs.RO cs.NI  published:2017-09-22 summary:We present the Robotic Overlay coMmunicAtioN prOtocol (ROMANO), a lightweight, application layer overlay communication protocol for a unified sensing and control abstraction of a network of heterogeneous robots mainly consisting of low power, low-compute-capable robots. ROMANO is built to work in conjunction with the well-known MQ Telemetry Transport for Sensor Nodes (MQTT-SN) protocol, a lightweight publish-subscribe communication protocol for the Internet of Things and makes use its concept of "topics" to designate the addition and deletion of communication endpoints by changing the subscriptions of topics at each device. We also develop a portable implementation of ROMANO for low power IEEE 802.15.4 (Zigbee) radios and deployed it on a small testbed of commercially available, low-power, and low-compute-capable robots called Pololu 3pi robots. Based on a thorough analysis of the protocol on the real testbed, as a measure of throughput, we demonstrate that ROMANO can guarantee more than a $99.5\%$ message delivery ratio for a message generation rate up to 200 messages per second. The single hop delays in ROMANO are as low as 20ms with linear dependency on the number of robots connected. These delay numbers concur with typical delays in 802.15.4 networks and suggest that ROMANO does not introduce additional delays. Lastly, we implement four different multi-robot applications to demonstrate the scalability, adaptability, ease of integration, and reliability of ROMANO. version:1
arxiv-1709-04906 | On the interaction between Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand systems and the power network: models and coordination algorithms | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.04906 | id:1709.04906 author:Federico Rossi, Ramon Iglesias, Mahnoosh Alizadeh, Marco Pavone category:cs.SY cs.MA cs.RO  published:2017-09-14 summary:We study the interaction between a fleet of electric, self-driving vehicles servicing on-demand transportation requests (referred to as Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand, or AMoD, system) and the electric power network. We propose a joint linear model that captures the coupling between the two systems stemming from the vehicles' charging requirements. The model subsumes existing network flow models for AMoD systems and linear models for the power network, and it captures time-varying customer demand and power generation costs, road congestion, and power transmission and distribution constraints. We then leverage the linear model to jointly optimize the operation of both systems. We propose an algorithmic procedure to losslessly reduce the problem size by bundling customer requests, allowing it to be efficiently solved by state-of-the-art linear programming solvers. Finally, we study the implementation of a hypothetical electric-powered AMoD system in Dallas-Fort Worth, and its impact on the Texas power network. We show that coordination between the AMoD system and the power network can reduce the overall energy expenditure compared to the case where no cars are present (despite the increased demand for electricity) and yield savings of $78M/year compared to an uncoordinated scenario. Collectively, the results of this paper provide a first-of-a-kind characterization of the interaction between electric-powered AMoD systems and the electric power network, and shed additional light on the economic and societal value of AMoD. version:2
arxiv-1709-07534 | MRNet-Product2Vec: A Multi-task Recurrent Neural Network for Product Embeddings | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07534 | id:1709.07534 author:Arijit Biswas, Mukul Bhutani, Subhajit Sanyal category:cs.AI cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-09-21 summary:E-commerce websites such as Amazon, Alibaba, Flipkart, and Walmart sell billions of products. Machine learning (ML) algorithms involving products are often used to improve the customer experience and increase revenue, e.g., product similarity, recommendation, and price estimation. The products are required to be represented as features before training an ML algorithm. In this paper, we propose an approach called MRNet-Product2Vec for creating generic embeddings of products within an e-commerce ecosystem. We learn a dense and low-dimensional embedding where a diverse set of signals related to a product are explicitly injected into its representation. We train a Discriminative Multi-task Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), where the input is a product title fed through a Bidirectional RNN and at the output, product labels corresponding to fifteen different tasks are predicted. The task set includes several intrinsic characteristics about a product such as price, weight, size, color, popularity, and material. We evaluate the proposed embedding quantitatively and qualitatively. We demonstrate that they are almost as good as sparse and extremely high-dimensional TF-IDF representation in spite of having less than 3% of the TF-IDF dimension. We also use a multimodal autoencoder for comparing products from different language-regions and show preliminary yet promising qualitative results. version:1
arxiv-1709-07529 | Energy-Efficient Wireless Interconnection Framework for Multichip Systems with In-package Memory Stacks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07529 | id:1709.07529 author:Md Shahriar Shamim, M Meraj Ahmed, Naseef Mansoor, Amlan Ganguly category:cs.AR  published:2017-09-21 summary:Multichip systems with memory stacks and various processing chips are at the heart of platform based designs such as servers and embedded systems. Full utilization of the benefits of these integrated multichip systems need a seamless, and scalable in-package interconnection framework. However, state-of-the-art inter-chip communication requires long wireline channels which increases energy consumption and latency while decreasing data bandwidth. Here, we propose the design of an energy-efficient, seamless wireless interconnection network for multichip systems. We demonstrate with cycle-accurate simulations that such a design reduces the energy consumption and latency while increasing the bandwidth in comparison to modern multichip integration systems. version:1
arxiv-1709-07528 | Defining a Lingua Franca to Open the Black Box of a Naïve Bayes Recommender | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07528 | id:1709.07528 author:Kenneth L. Hess, Hugo D. Paz category:cs.IR cs.AI H.3.1; H.3.3  published:2017-09-21 summary:Many AI systems have a black box nature that makes it difficult to understand how they make their recommendations. This can be unsettling, as the designer cannot be certain how the system will respond to novelty. To penetrate our Na\"ive Bayes recommender's black box, we first asked, what do we want to know from our system, and how can it be obtained? The answers led us to recursively define a common lexicon with the AI, a lingua franca, using the very items that the system ranks to create meta-symbols recognized by the system, and enabling us to understand the system's knowledge in plain terms and at different levels of abstraction. As one bonus, using its existing knowledge, the lingua franca can enable the system to extend recommendations to related, but entirely new areas, ameliorating the cold start problem. We also supplement the lingua franca with techniques for visualizing the system's knowledge state, develop metrics for evaluating the meaningfulness of terms in the lingua franca, and generalize the requirements for developing a similar lingua franca in other applications. version:1
arxiv-1709-07511 | Robust Optimization of Unconstrained Binary Quadratic Problems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07511 | id:1709.07511 author:Mark Lewis, Gary Kochenberger, John Metcalfe category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-21 summary:In this paper we focus on the unconstrained binary quadratic optimization model, maximize x^t Qx, x binary, and consider the problem of identifying optimal solutions that are robust with respect to perturbations in the Q matrix.. We are motivated to find robust, or stable, solutions because of the uncertainty inherent in the big data origins of Q and limitations in computer numerical precision, particularly in a new class of quantum annealing computers. Experimental design techniques are used to generate a diverse subset of possible scenarios, from which robust solutions are identified. An illustrative example with practical application to business decision making is examined. The approach presented also generates a surface response equation which is used to estimate upper bounds in constant time for Q instantiations within the scenario extremes. In addition, a theoretical framework for the robustness of individual x_i variables is considered by examining the range of Q values over which the x_i are predetermined. version:1
arxiv-1709-07492 | Sparse-to-Dense: Depth Prediction from Sparse Depth Samples and a Single Image | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07492 | id:1709.07492 author:Fangchang Ma, Sertac Karaman category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-09-21 summary:We consider the problem of dense depth prediction from a sparse set of depth measurements and a single RGB image. Since depth estimation from monocular images alone is inherently ambiguous and unreliable, we introduce additional sparse depth samples, which are either collected from a low-resolution depth sensor or computed from SLAM, to attain a higher level of robustness and accuracy. We propose the use of a single regression network to learn directly from the RGB-D raw data, and explore the impact of number of depth samples on prediction accuracy. Our experiments show that, as compared to using only RGB images, the addition of 100 spatially random depth samples reduces the prediction root-mean-square error by half in the NYU-Depth-v2 indoor dataset. It also boosts the percentage of reliable prediction from 59% to 92% on the more challenging KITTI driving dataset. We demonstrate two applications of the proposed algorithm: serving as a plug-in module in SLAM to convert sparse maps to dense maps, and creating much denser point clouds from low-resolution LiDARs. Codes and video demonstration are publicly available. version:1
arxiv-1709-07480 | Complexity of Scheduling Charging in the Smart Grid | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07480 | id:1709.07480 author:Mathijs de Weerdt, Michael Albert, Vincent Conitzer category:cs.CC cs.AI  published:2017-09-21 summary:In the smart grid, the intent is to use flexibility in demand, both to balance demand and supply as well as to resolve potential congestion. A first prominent example of such flexible demand is the charging of electric vehicles, which do not necessarily need to be charged as soon as they are plugged in. The problem of optimally scheduling the charging demand of electric vehicles within the constraints of the electricity infrastructure is called the charge scheduling problem. The models of the charging speed, horizon, and charging demand determine the computational complexity of the charge scheduling problem. For about 20 variants, we show, using a dynamic programming approach, that the problem is either in P or weakly NP-hard. We also show that about 10 variants of the problem are strongly NP-hard, presenting a potentially significant obstacle to their use in practical situations of scale. version:1
arxiv-1709-07472 | Unsupervised Contact Learning for Humanoid Estimation and Control | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07472 | id:1709.07472 author:Nicholas Rotella, Stefan Schaal, Ludovic Righetti category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-21 summary:This work presents a method for contact state estimation using fuzzy clustering to learn contact probability for full, six-dimensional humanoid contacts. The data required for training is solely from proprioceptive sensors - endeffector contact wrench sensors and inertial measurement units (IMUs) - and the method is completely unsupervised. The resulting cluster means are used to efficiently compute the probability of contact in each of the six endeffector degrees of freedom (DoFs) independently. This clustering-based contact probability estimator is validated in a kinematics-based base state estimator in a simulation environment with realistic added sensor noise for locomotion over rough, low-friction terrain on which the robot is subject to foot slip and rotation. The proposed base state estimator which utilizes these six DoF contact probability estimates is shown to perform considerably better than that which determines kinematic contact constraints purely based on measured normal force. version:1
arxiv-1709-03456 | CLAD: A Complex and Long Activities Dataset with Rich Crowdsourced Annotations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.03456 | id:1709.03456 author:Jawad Tayyub, Majd Hawasly, David C. Hogg, Anthony G. Cohn category:cs.CV cs.AI  published:2017-09-11 summary:This paper introduces a novel activity dataset which exhibits real-life and diverse scenarios of complex, temporally-extended human activities and actions. The dataset presents a set of videos of actors performing everyday activities in a natural and unscripted manner. The dataset was recorded using a static Kinect 2 sensor which is commonly used on many robotic platforms. The dataset comprises of RGB-D images, point cloud data, automatically generated skeleton tracks in addition to crowdsourced annotations. Furthermore, we also describe the methodology used to acquire annotations through crowdsourcing. Finally some activity recognition benchmarks are presented using current state-of-the-art techniques. We believe that this dataset is particularly suitable as a testbed for activity recognition research but it can also be applicable for other common tasks in robotics/computer vision research such as object detection and human skeleton tracking. version:2
arxiv-1709-07401 | Influence of Personal Preferences on Link Dynamics in Social Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07401 | id:1709.07401 author:Ashwin Bahulkar, Boleslaw K. Szymanski, Nitesh Chawla, Omar Lizardo, Kevin Chan category:cs.SI cs.AI physics.soc-ph  published:2017-09-21 summary:We study a unique network dataset including periodic surveys and electronic logs of dyadic contacts via smartphones. The participants were a sample of freshmen entering university in the Fall 2011. Their opinions on a variety of political and social issues and lists of activities on campus were regularly recorded at the beginning and end of each semester for the first three years of study. We identify a behavioral network defined by call and text data, and a cognitive network based on friendship nominations in ego-network surveys. Both networks are limited to study participants. Since a wide range of attributes on each node were collected in self-reports, we refer to these networks as attribute-rich networks. We study whether student preferences for certain attributes of friends can predict formation and dissolution of edges in both networks. We introduce a method for computing student preferences for different attributes which we use to predict link formation and dissolution. We then rank these attributes according to their importance for making predictions. We find that personal preferences, in particular political views, and preferences for common activities help predict link formation and dissolution in both the behavioral and cognitive networks. version:1
arxiv-1709-07358 | Non-Depth-First Search against Independent Distributions on an AND-OR Tree | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07358 | id:1709.07358 author:Toshio Suzuki category:cs.DS cs.AI 68T20  68W40 I.2.8; F.2.2  published:2017-09-21 summary:Suzuki and Niida (Ann. Pure. Appl. Logic, 2015) showed the following results on independent distributions (IDs) on an AND-OR tree, where they took only depth-first algorithms into consideration. (1) Among IDs such that probability of the root having value 0 is fixed as a given r such that 0 < r < 1, if d is a maximizer of cost of the best algorithm then d is an independent and identical distribution (IID). (2) Among all IDs, if d is a maximizer of cost of the best algorithm then d is an IID. In the case where non-depth-first algorithms are taken into consideration, the counter parts of (1) and (2) are left open in the above work. Peng et al. (Inform. Process. Lett., 2017) extended (1) and (2) to multi-branching trees, where in (2) they put an additional hypothesis on IDs that probability of the root having value 0 is neither 0 nor 1. We give positive answers for the two questions of Suzuki-Niida. A key to the proof is that if ID d achieves the equilibrium among IDs then we can chose an algorithm of the best cost against d from depth-first algorithms. In addition, we extend the result of Peng et al. to the case where non-depth-first algorithms are taken into consideration. version:1
arxiv-1612-03653 | Learning to Drive using Inverse Reinforcement Learning and Deep Q-Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03653 | id:1612.03653 author:Sahand Sharifzadeh, Ioannis Chiotellis, Rudolph Triebel, Daniel Cremers category:cs.AI cs.RO  published:2016-12-12 summary:We propose an inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) approach using Deep Q-Networks to extract the rewards in problems with large state spaces. We evaluate the performance of this approach in a simulation-based autonomous driving scenario. Our results resemble the intuitive relation between the reward function and readings of distance sensors mounted at different poses on the car. We also show that, after a few learning rounds, our simulated agent generates collision-free motions and performs human-like lane change behaviour. version:2
arxiv-1709-06428 | Sensor Assignment Algorithms to Improve Observability while Tracking Targets | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06428 | id:1709.06428 author:Lifeng Zhou, Pratap Tokekar category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-17 summary:We study two sensor assignment problems for multi-target tracking with the goal of improving the observability of the underlying estimator. In the restricted version of the problem, we focus on assigning unique pairs of sensors to each target. We present a 1/3-approximation algorithm for this problem. We use the inverse of the condition number as the value function. If the target's motion model is not known, the inverse cannot be computed exactly. Instead, we present a lower bound for range-only sensing. In the general version, the sensors must form teams to track individual targets. We do not force any specific constraints on the size of each team, instead assume that the value function is monotonically increasing and is submodular. A greedy algorithm that yields a 1/2-approximation. However, we show that the inverse of the condition number is neither monotone nor submodular. Instead, we present other measures that are monotone and submodular. In addition to theoretical results, we evaluate our results empirically through simulations. version:2
arxiv-1709-07310 | Constant Bearing Pursuit on Branching Graphs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07310 | id:1709.07310 author:Kevin S. Galloway, Biswadip Dey category:cs.SY cs.RO  published:2017-09-21 summary:Cyclic pursuit frameworks provide an efficient way to create useful global behaviors out of pairwise interactions in a collective of autonomous robots. Earlier work studied cyclic pursuit with a constant bearing (CB) pursuit law, and has demonstrated the existence of a variety of interesting behaviors for the corresponding dynamics. In this work, by attaching multiple branches to a single cycle, we introduce a modified version of this framework which allows us to consider any weakly connected pursuit graph where each node has an outdegree of 1. This provides a further generalization of the cyclic pursuit setting. Then, after showing existence of relative equilibria (rectilinear or circling motion), pure shape equilibria (spiraling motion) and periodic orbits, we also derive necessary conditions for stability of a 3-agent collective. By paving a way for individual agents to join or leave a collective without perturbing the motion of others, our approach leads to improved reliability of the overall system. version:1
arxiv-1709-07250 | Real-time predictive maintenance for wind turbines using Big Data frameworks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07250 | id:1709.07250 author:Mikel Canizo, Enrique Onieva, Angel Conde, Santiago Charramendieta, Salvador Trujillo category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-21 summary:This work presents the evolution of a solution for predictive maintenance to a Big Data environment. The proposed adaptation aims for predicting failures on wind turbines using a data-driven solution deployed in the cloud and which is composed by three main modules. (i) A predictive model generator which generates predictive models for each monitored wind turbine by means of Random Forest algorithm. (ii) A monitoring agent that makes predictions every 10 minutes about failures in wind turbines during the next hour. Finally, (iii) a dashboard where given predictions can be visualized. To implement the solution Apache Spark, Apache Kafka, Apache Mesos and HDFS have been used. Therefore, we have improved the previous work in terms of data process speed, scalability and automation. In addition, we have provided fault-tolerant functionality with a centralized access point from where the status of all the wind turbines of a company localized all over the world can be monitored, reducing O&M costs. version:1
arxiv-1709-07241 | Satisfiability Modulo Theory based Methodology for Floorplanning in VLSI Circuits | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07241 | id:1709.07241 author:Suchandra Banerjee, Anand Ratna, Suchismita Roy category:cs.AR  published:2017-09-21 summary:This paper proposes a Satisfiability Modulo Theory based formulation for floorplanning in VLSI circuits. The proposed approach allows a number of fixed blocks to be placed within a layout region without overlapping and at the same time minimizing the area of the layout region. The proposed approach is extended to allow a number of fixed blocks with ability to rotate and flexible blocks (with variable width and height) to be placed within a layout without overlap. Our target in all cases is reduction in area occupied on a chip which is of vital importance in obtaining a good circuit design. Satisfiability Modulo Theory combines the problem of Boolean satisfiability with domains such as convex optimization. Satisfiability Modulo Theory provides a richer modeling language than is possible with pure Boolean SAT formulas. We have conducted our experiments on MCNC and GSRC benchmark circuits to calculate the total area occupied, amount of deadspace and the total CPU time consumed while placing the blocks without overlapping. The results obtained shows clearly that the amount of dead space or wasted space is reduced if rotation is applied to the blocks. version:1
arxiv-1709-07224 | Learning Complex Swarm Behaviors by Exploiting Local Communication Protocols with Deep Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07224 | id:1709.07224 author:Maximilian Hüttenrauch, Adrian Šošić, Gerhard Neumann category:cs.MA cs.AI cs.LG cs.SY stat.ML  published:2017-09-21 summary:Swarm systems constitute a challenging problem for reinforcement learning (RL) as the algorithm needs to learn decentralized control policies that can cope with limited local sensing and communication abilities of the agents. Although there have been recent advances of deep RL algorithms applied to multi-agent systems, learning communication protocols while simultaneously learning the behavior of the agents is still beyond the reach of deep RL algorithms. However, while it is often difficult to directly define the behavior of the agents, simple communication protocols can be defined more easily using prior knowledge about the given task. In this paper, we propose a number of simple communication protocols that can be exploited by deep reinforcement learning to find decentralized control policies in a multi-robot swarm environment. The protocols are based on histograms that encode the local neighborhood relations of the agents and can also transmit task-specific information, such as the shortest distance and direction to a desired target. In our framework, we use an adaptation of Trust Region Policy Optimization to learn complex collaborative tasks, such as formation building, building a communication link, and pushing an intruder. We evaluate our findings in a simulated 2D-physics environment, and compare the implications of different communication protocols. version:1
arxiv-1709-07223 | Convolutional neural networks that teach microscopes how to image | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07223 | id:1709.07223 author:Roarke Horstmeyer, Richard Y. Chen, Barbara Kappes, Benjamin Judkewitz category:cs.CV cs.AI cs.LG physics.optics  published:2017-09-21 summary:Deep learning algorithms offer a powerful means to automatically analyze the content of medical images. However, many biological samples of interest are primarily transparent to visible light and contain features that are difficult to resolve with a standard optical microscope. Here, we use a convolutional neural network (CNN) not only to classify images, but also to optimize the physical layout of the imaging device itself. We increase the classification accuracy of a microscope's recorded images by merging an optical model of image formation into the pipeline of a CNN. The resulting network simultaneously determines an ideal illumination arrangement to highlight important sample features during image acquisition, along with a set of convolutional weights to classify the detected images post-capture. We demonstrate our joint optimization technique with an experimental microscope configuration that automatically identifies malaria-infected cells with 5-10% higher accuracy than standard and alternative microscope lighting designs. version:1
arxiv-1709-00084 | Behavior Trees in Robotics and AI: An Introduction | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.00084 | id:1709.00084 author:Michele Colledanchise, Petter Ögren category:cs.RO cs.AI  published:2017-08-31 summary:A Behavior Tree (BT) is a way to structure the switching between different tasks in an autonomous agent, such as a robot or a virtual entity in a computer game. BTs are a very efficient way of creating complex systems that are both modular and reactive. These properties are crucial in many applications, which has led to the spread of BT from computer game programming to many branches of AI and Robotics. In this book, we will first give an introduction to BTs, then we describe how BTs relate to, and in many cases generalize, earlier switching structures. These ideas are then used as a foundation for a set of efficient and easy to use design principles. Properties such as safety, robustness, and efficiency are important for an autonomous system, and we describe a set of tools for formally analyzing these using a state space description of BTs. With the new analysis tools, we can formalize the descriptions of how BTs generalize earlier approaches. Finally, we describe an extended set of tools to capture the behavior of Stochastic BTs, where the outcomes of actions are described by probabilities. These tools enable the computation of both success probabilities and time to completion. version:2
arxiv-1709-07174 | Agile Off-Road Autonomous Driving Using End-to-End Deep Imitation Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07174 | id:1709.07174 author:Yunpeng Pan, Ching-An Cheng, Kamil Saigol, Keuntaek Lee, Xinyan Yan, Evangelos Theodorou, Byron Boots category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-21 summary:We present an end-to-end imitation learning system for agile, off-road autonomous driving using only low-cost on-board sensors.By imitating an optimal controller, we train a deep neural network control policy to map raw, high-dimensional observations to continuous steering and throttle commands, the latter of which is essential to successfully drive on varied terrain at high speed. Compared with recent approaches to similar tasks, our method requires neither state estimation nor online planning to navigate the vehicle. Real-world experimental results demonstrate successful autonomous off-road driving, matching the state-of-the-art performance. version:1
arxiv-1709-07158 | SceneCut: Joint Geometric and Object Segmentation for Indoor Scenes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07158 | id:1709.07158 author:Trung Pham, Thanh-Toan Do, Niko Sünderhauf, Ian Reid category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-21 summary:This paper presents SceneCut, a novel approach to jointly discover previously unseen objects and non-object surfaces using a single RGB-D image. SceneCut's joint reasoning over scene semantics and geometry allows a robot to detect and segment object instances in complex scenes where modern deep learning-based methods either fail to separate object instances, or fail to detect objects that were not seen during training. SceneCut automatically decomposes a scene into meaningful regions which either represent objects or scene surfaces. The decomposition is qualified by an unified energy function over objectness and geometric fitting. We show how this energy function can be optimized efficiently by utilizing hierarchical segmentation trees. Moreover, we leverage a pre-trained convolutional oriented boundary network to predict accurate boundaries from images, which are used to construct high-quality region hierarchies. We evaluate SceneCut on several different indoor environments, and the results show that SceneCut significantly outperforms all the existing methods. version:1
arxiv-1709-07150 | Feature Engineering for Predictive Modeling using Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07150 | id:1709.07150 author:Udayan Khurana, Horst Samulowitz, Deepak Turaga category:cs.AI cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-09-21 summary:Feature engineering is a crucial step in the process of predictive modeling. It involves the transformation of given feature space, typically using mathematical functions, with the objective of reducing the modeling error for a given target. However, there is no well-defined basis for performing effective feature engineering. It involves domain knowledge, intuition, and most of all, a lengthy process of trial and error. The human attention involved in overseeing this process significantly influences the cost of model generation. We present a new framework to automate feature engineering. It is based on performance driven exploration of a transformation graph, which systematically and compactly enumerates the space of given options. A highly efficient exploration strategy is derived through reinforcement learning on past examples. version:1
arxiv-1709-07122 | Accelerating PageRank using Partition-Centric Processing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07122 | id:1709.07122 author:Kartik Lakhotia, Rajgopal Kannan, Viktor Prasanna category:cs.DC cs.DS cs.PF  published:2017-09-21 summary:PageRank is a fundamental link analysis algorithm and a key representative of the performance of other graph algorithms and Sparse Matrix Vector (SpMV) multiplication. Calculating PageRank on sparse graphs generates large amount of random memory accesses resulting in low cache line utilization and poor use of memory bandwidth. In this paper, we present a novel Partition-Centric Processing Methodology (PCPM) that drastically reduces the amount of communication with DRAM and achieves high memory bandwidth. Similar to the state of the art Binning with Vertex-centric Gather-Apply-Scatter (BVGAS) method, PCPM performs partition wise scatter and gather of updates with both phases enjoying full cache line utilization. However, BVGAS suffers from random memory accesses and redundant read/write of update values from nodes to their neighbors. In contrast, PCPM propagates single update from source node to all destinations in a partition, thus decreasing redundancy effectively. We make use of this characteristic to develop a novel bipartite Partition-Node Graph (PNG) data layout for PCPM, that enables streaming memory accesses, with very little generation overhead. We perform detailed analysis of PCPM and provide theoretical bounds on the amount of communication and random DRAM accesses. We experimentally evaluate our approach using 6 large graph datasets and demonstrate an average 2.7x speedup in execution time and 1.7x reduction in communication, compared to the state of the art. We also show that unlike the BVGAS implementation, PCPM is able to take advantage of intelligent node labeling that enhances locality in graphs, by further reducing the amount of communication with DRAM. Although we use PageRank as the target application in this paper, our approach can be applied to generic SpMV computation. version:1
arxiv-1709-04558 | Using NLU in Context for Question Answering: Improving on Facebook's bAbI Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.04558 | id:1709.04558 author:John S. Ball category:cs.CL cs.AI  published:2017-09-13 summary:For the next step in human to machine interaction, Artificial Intelligence (AI) should interact predominantly using natural language because, if it worked, it would be the fastest way to communicate. Facebook's toy tasks (bAbI) provide a useful benchmark to compare implementations for conversational AI. While the published experiments so far have been based on exploiting the distributional hypothesis with machine learning, our model exploits natural language understanding (NLU) with the decomposition of language based on Role and Reference Grammar (RRG) and the brain-based Patom theory. Our combinatorial system for conversational AI based on linguistics has many advantages: passing bAbI task tests without parsing or statistics while increasing scalability. Our model validates both the training and test data to find 'garbage' input and output (GIGO). It is not rules-based, nor does it use parts of speech, but instead relies on meaning. While Deep Learning is difficult to debug and fix, every step in our model can be understood and changed like any non-statistical computer program. Deep Learning's lack of explicable reasoning has raised opposition to AI, partly due to fear of the unknown. To support the goals of AI, we propose extended tasks to use human-level statements with tense, aspect and voice, and embedded clauses with junctures: and answers to be natural language generation (NLG) instead of keywords. While machine learning permits invalid training data to produce incorrect test responses, our system cannot because the context tracking would need to be intentionally broken. We believe no existing learning systems can currently solve these extended natural language tests. There appears to be a knowledge gap between NLP researchers and linguists, but ongoing competitive results such as these promise to narrow that gap. version:2
arxiv-1709-07114 | Cost Adaptation for Robust Decentralized Swarm Behaviour | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07114 | id:1709.07114 author:Peter Henderson, Matthew Vertescher, David Meger, Mark Coates category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-21 summary:The multi-agent swarm system is a robust paradigm which can drive efficient completion of complex tasks even under energy limitations and time constraints. However, coordination of a swarm from a centralized command center can be difficult, particularly as the swarm becomes large and spans wide ranges. Here, we leverage propagation of messages based on mesh-networking protocols for global communication in the swarm and online cost-optimization through decentralized receding horizon control to drive decentralized decision-making. Our cost-based formulation allows for a wide range of tasks to be encoded. To ensure this, we implement a method for adaptation of costs and constraints which ensures effectiveness with novel tasks, network delays, heterogeneous flight capabilities, and increasingly large swarms. We use the Unity3D game engine to build a simulator capable of introducing artificial networking failures and delays in the swarm. Using the simulator we validate our method using an example coordinated exploration task. We release our simulator and code to the community for future work. version:1
arxiv-1709-07112 | Cooperative Adaptive Control for Cloud-Based Robotics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07112 | id:1709.07112 author:Patrick M. Wensing, Jean-Jacques E. Slotine category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-21 summary:This paper studies manipulator adaptive control when knowledge is shared by multiple robots through the cloud. We first consider the case of multiple robots manipulating a common object through synchronous centralized update laws to identify unknown inertial parameters. Through this development, we introduce a notion of Ensemble Sufficient Richness, wherein parameter converge can be enabled through teamwork in the group. The introduction of this property and the analysis of stable adaptive controllers that benefit from it constitute the main new contributions of this work. Building on this original example, we then consider decentralized update laws and the influence of communication delays on this process. Perhaps surprisingly, these nonidealized networked conditions inherit the same benefits of convergence being determined through ensemble effects for the group. Simple simulations of a planar manipulator identifying an unknown load are provided to illustrate the central idea and benefits of Ensemble Sufficient Richness. version:1
arxiv-1709-07095 | Practical Machine Learning for Cloud Intrusion Detection: Challenges and the Way Forward | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07095 | id:1709.07095 author:Ram Shankar Siva Kumar, Andrew Wicker, Matt Swann category:cs.CR cs.AI  published:2017-09-20 summary:Operationalizing machine learning based security detections is extremely challenging, especially in a continuously evolving cloud environment. Conventional anomaly detection does not produce satisfactory results for analysts that are investigating security incidents in the cloud. Model evaluation alone presents its own set of problems due to a lack of benchmark datasets. When deploying these detections, we must deal with model compliance, localization, and data silo issues, among many others. We pose the problem of "attack disruption" as a way forward in the security data science space. In this paper, we describe the framework, challenges, and open questions surrounding the successful operationalization of machine learning based security detections in a cloud environment and provide some insights on how we have addressed them. version:1
arxiv-1709-07092 | On Compiling DNNFs without Determinism | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07092 | id:1709.07092 author:Umut Oztok, Adnan Darwiche category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-20 summary:State-of-the-art knowledge compilers generate deterministic subsets of DNNF, which have been recently shown to be exponentially less succinct than DNNF. In this paper, we propose a new method to compile DNNFs without enforcing determinism necessarily. Our approach is based on compiling deterministic DNNFs with the addition of auxiliary variables to the input formula. These variables are then existentially quantified from the deterministic structure in linear time, which would lead to a DNNF that is equivalent to the input formula and not necessarily deterministic. On the theoretical side, we show that the new method could generate exponentially smaller DNNFs than deterministic ones, even by adding a single auxiliary variable. Further, we show that various existing techniques that introduce auxiliary variables to the input formulas can be employed in our framework. On the practical side, we empirically demonstrate that our new method can significantly advance DNNF compilation on certain benchmarks. version:1
arxiv-1709-07080 | A Deep-Reinforcement Learning Approach for Software-Defined Networking Routing Optimization | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07080 | id:1709.07080 author:Giorgio Stampa, Marta Arias, David Sanchez-Charles, Victor Muntes-Mulero, Albert Cabellos category:cs.NI cs.AI  published:2017-09-20 summary:In this paper we design and evaluate a Deep-Reinforcement Learning agent that optimizes routing. Our agent adapts automatically to current traffic conditions and proposes tailored configurations that attempt to minimize the network delay. Experiments show very promising performance. Moreover, this approach provides important operational advantages with respect to traditional optimization algorithms. version:1
arxiv-1709-07051 | Distributed Camouflage for Swarm Robotics and Smart Materials | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07051 | id:1709.07051 author:Yang Li, John Klingner, Nikolaus Correll category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-20 summary:We present a distributed algorithm for a swarm of active particles to camouflage in an environment. Each particle is equipped with sensing, computation and communication, allowing the system to take color and gradient information from the environment and self-organize into an appropriate pattern. Current artificial camouflage systems are either limited to static patterns, which are adapted for specific environments, or rely on back-projection, which depend on the viewer's point of view. Inspired by the camouflage abilities of the cuttlefish, we propose a distributed estimation and pattern formation algorithm that allows to quickly adapt to different environments. We present convergence results both in simulation as well as on a swarm of miniature robots "Droplets" for a variety of patterns. version:1
arxiv-1709-07033 | Learning Human Behaviors for Robot-Assisted Dressing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07033 | id:1709.07033 author:Alexander Clegg, Wenhao Yu, Jie Tan, Charlie C. Kemp, Greg Turk, C. Karen Liu category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-20 summary:We investigate robotic assistants for dressing that can anticipate the motion of the person who is being helped. To this end, we use reinforcement learning to create models of human behavior during assistance with dressing. To explore this kind of interaction, we assume that the robot presents an open sleeve of a hospital gown to a person, and that the person moves their arm into the sleeve. The controller that models the person's behavior is given the position of the end of the sleeve and information about contact between the person's hand and the fabric of the gown. We simulate this system with a human torso model that has realistic joint ranges, a simple robot gripper, and a physics-based cloth model for the gown. Through reinforcement learning (specifically the TRPO algorithm) the system creates a model of human behavior that is capable of placing the arm into the sleeve. We aim to model what humans are capable of doing, rather than what they typically do. We demonstrate successfully trained human behaviors for three robot-assisted dressing strategies: 1) the robot gripper holds the sleeve motionless, 2) the gripper moves the sleeve linearly towards the person from the front, and 3) the gripper moves the sleeve linearly from the side. version:1
arxiv-1709-07032 | Data-Driven Model Predictive Control of Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07032 | id:1709.07032 author:Ramon Iglesias, Federico Rossi, Kevin Wang, David Hallac, Jure Leskovec, Marco Pavone category:cs.RO cs.MA cs.SY stat.AP  published:2017-09-20 summary:The goal of this paper is to present an end-to-end, data-driven framework to control Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand systems (AMoD, i.e. fleets of self-driving vehicles). We first model the AMoD system using a time-expanded network, and present a formulation that computes the optimal rebalancing strategy (i.e., preemptive repositioning) and the minimum feasible fleet size for a given travel demand. Then, we adapt this formulation to devise a Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithm that leverages short-term demand forecasts based on historical data to compute rebalancing strategies. We test the end-to-end performance of this controller with a state-of-the-art LSTM neural network to predict customer demand and real customer data from DiDi Chuxing: we show that this approach scales very well for large systems (indeed, the computational complexity of the MPC algorithm does not depend on the number of customers and of vehicles in the system) and outperforms state-of-the-art rebalancing strategies by reducing the mean customer wait time by up to to 89.6%. version:1
arxiv-1709-06990 | Text Compression for Sentiment Analysis via Evolutionary Algorithms | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06990 | id:1709.06990 author:Emmanuel Dufourq, Bruce A. Bassett category:cs.NE cs.AI cs.CL stat.ML  published:2017-09-20 summary:Can textual data be compressed intelligently without losing accuracy in evaluating sentiment? In this study, we propose a novel evolutionary compression algorithm, PARSEC (PARts-of-Speech for sEntiment Compression), which makes use of Parts-of-Speech tags to compress text in a way that sacrifices minimal classification accuracy when used in conjunction with sentiment analysis algorithms. An analysis of PARSEC with eight commercial and non-commercial sentiment analysis algorithms on twelve English sentiment data sets reveals that accurate compression is possible with (0%, 1.3%, 3.3%) loss in sentiment classification accuracy for (20%, 50%, 75%) data compression with PARSEC using LingPipe, the most accurate of the sentiment algorithms. Other sentiment analysis algorithms are more severely affected by compression. We conclude that significant compression of text data is possible for sentiment analysis depending on the accuracy demands of the specific application and the specific sentiment analysis algorithm used. version:1
arxiv-1709-06977 | Deep Reinforcement Learning for Dexterous Manipulation with Concept Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06977 | id:1709.06977 author:Aditya Gudimella, Ross Story, Matineh Shaker, Ruofan Kong, Matthew Brown, Victor Shnayder, Marcos Campos category:cs.AI cs.RO  published:2017-09-20 summary:Deep reinforcement learning yields great results for a large array of problems, but models are generally retrained anew for each new problem to be solved. Prior learning and knowledge are difficult to incorporate when training new models, requiring increasingly longer training as problems become more complex. This is especially problematic for problems with sparse rewards. We provide a solution to these problems by introducing Concept Network Reinforcement Learning (CNRL), a framework which allows us to decompose problems using a multi-level hierarchy. Concepts in a concept network are reusable, and flexible enough to encapsulate feature extractors, skills, or other concept networks. With this hierarchical learning approach, deep reinforcement learning can be used to solve complex tasks in a modular way, through problem decomposition. We demonstrate the strength of CNRL by training a model to grasp a rectangular prism and precisely stack it on top of a cube using a gripper on a Kinova JACO arm, simulated in MuJoCo. Our experiments show that our use of hierarchy results in a 45x reduction in environment interactions compared to the state-of-the-art on this task. version:1
arxiv-1709-06948 | Robust and Fast 3D Scan Alignment using Mutual Information | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06948 | id:1709.06948 author:Nikhil Mehta, James R. McBride, Gaurav Pandey category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-20 summary:This paper presents a mutual information (MI) based algorithm for the estimation of full 6-degree-of-freedom (DOF) rigid body transformation between two overlapping point clouds. We first divide the scene into a 3D voxel grid and define simple to compute features for each voxel in the scan. The two scans that need to be aligned are considered as a collection of these features and the MI between these voxelized features is maximized to obtain the correct alignment of scans. We have implemented our method with various simple point cloud features (such as number of points in voxel, variance of z-height in voxel) and compared the performance of the proposed method with existing point-to-point and point-to- distribution registration methods. We show that our approach has an efficient and fast parallel implementation on GPU, and evaluate the robustness and speed of the proposed algorithm on two real-world datasets which have variety of dynamic scenes from different environments. version:1
arxiv-1110-6437 | Anthropic decision theory | http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6437 | id:1110.6437 author:Stuart Armstrong category:physics.data-an cs.AI hep-th physics.pop-ph 62C05  published:2011-10-28 summary:This paper sets out to resolve how agents ought to act in the Sleeping Beauty problem and various related anthropic (self-locating belief) problems, not through the calculation of anthropic probabilities, but through finding the correct decision to make. It creates an anthropic decision theory (ADT) that decides these problems from a small set of principles. By doing so, it demonstrates that the attitude of agents with regards to each other (selfish or altruistic) changes the decisions they reach, and that it is very important to take this into account. To illustrate ADT, it is then applied to two major anthropic problems and paradoxes, the Presumptuous Philosopher and Doomsday problems, thus resolving some issues about the probability of human extinction. version:3
arxiv-1709-06921 | A Byzantine Fault-Tolerant Ordering Service for the Hyperledger Fabric Blockchain Platform | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06921 | id:1709.06921 author:João Sousa, Alysson Bessani, Marko Vukolić category:cs.CR cs.DC  published:2017-09-20 summary:Hyperledger Fabric (HLF) is a flexible permissioned blockchain platform designed for business applications beyond the basic digital coin addressed by Bitcoin and other existing networks. A key property of HLF is its extensibility, and in particular the support for multiple ordering services for building the blockchain. Nonetheless, the version 1.0 was launched in early 2017 without an implementation of a Byzantine fault-tolerant (BFT) ordering service. To overcome this limitation, we designed, implemented, and evaluated a BFT ordering service for HLF on top of the BFT-SMaRt state machine replication/consensus library, implementing also optimizations for wide-area deployment. Our results show that HLF with our ordering service can achieve up to ten thousand transactions per second and write a transaction irrevocably in the blockchain in half a second, even with peers spread in different continents. version:1
arxiv-1709-06919 | Bayesian Optimization with Automatic Prior Selection for Data-Efficient Direct Policy Search | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06919 | id:1709.06919 author:Rémi Pautrat, Konstantinos Chatzilygeroudis, Jean-Baptiste Mouret category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.LG cs.NE stat.ML  published:2017-09-20 summary:One of the most interesting features of Bayesian optimization for direct policy search is that it can leverage priors (e.g., from simulation or from previous tasks) to accelerate learning on a robot. In this paper, we are interested in situations for which several priors exist but we do not know in advance which one fits best the current situation. We tackle this problem by introducing a novel acquisition function, called Most Likely Expected Improvement (MLEI), that combines the likelihood of the priors and the expected improvement. We evaluate this new acquisition function on a transfer learning task for a 5-DOF planar arm and on a possibly damaged, 6-legged robot that has to learn to walk on flat ground and on stairs, with priors corresponding to different stairs and different kinds of damages. Our results show that MLEI effectively identifies and exploits the priors, even when there is no obvious match between the current situations and the priors. version:1
arxiv-1709-06917 | Using Parameterized Black-Box Priors to Scale Up Model-Based Policy Search for Robotics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06917 | id:1709.06917 author:Konstantinos Chatzilygeroudis, Jean-Baptiste Mouret category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.LG cs.NE stat.ML  published:2017-09-20 summary:The most data-efficient algorithms for reinforcement learning in robotics are model-based policy search algorithms, which alternate between learning a dynamical model of the robot and optimizing a policy to maximize the expected return given the model and its uncertainties. Among the few proposed approaches, the recently introduced Black-DROPS algorithm exploits a black-box optimization algorithm to achieve both high data-efficiency and good computation times when several cores are used; nevertheless, like all model-based policy search approaches, Black-DROPS does not scale to high dimensional state/action spaces. In this paper, we introduce a new model learning procedure in Black-DROPS that leverages parameterized black-box priors to (1) scale up to high-dimensional systems, and (2) be robust to large inaccuracies of the prior information. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach with the "pendubot" swing-up task in simulation and with a physical hexapod robot (48D state space, 18D action space) that has to walk forward as fast as possible. The results show that our new algorithm is more data-efficient than previous model-based policy search algorithms (with and without priors) and that it can allow a physical 6-legged robot to learn new gaits in only 16 to 30 seconds of interaction time. version:1
arxiv-1709-06908 | EMR-based medical knowledge representation and inference via Markov random fields and distributed representation learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06908 | id:1709.06908 author:Chao Zhao, Jingchi Jiang, Yi Guan category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-20 summary:Objective: Electronic medical records (EMRs) contain an amount of medical knowledge which can be used for clinical decision support (CDS). Our objective is a general system that can extract and represent these knowledge contained in EMRs to support three CDS tasks: test recommendation, initial diagnosis, and treatment plan recommendation, with the given condition of one patient. Methods: We extracted four kinds of medical entities from records and constructed an EMR-based medical knowledge network (EMKN), in which nodes are entities and edges reflect their co-occurrence in a single record. Three bipartite subgraphs (bi-graphs) were extracted from the EMKN to support each task. One part of the bi-graph was the given condition (e.g., symptoms), and the other was the condition to be inferred (e.g., diseases). Each bi-graph was regarded as a Markov random field to support the inference. Three lazy energy functions and one parameter-based energy function were proposed, as well as two knowledge representation learning-based energy functions, which can provide a distributed representation of medical entities. Three measures were utilized for performance evaluation. Results: On the initial diagnosis task, 80.11% of the test records identified at least one correct disease from top 10 candidates. Test and treatment recommendation results were 87.88% and 92.55%, respectively. These results altogether indicate that the proposed system outperformed the baseline methods. The distributed representation of medical entities does reflect similarity relationships in regards to knowledge level. Conclusion: Combining EMKN and MRF is an effective approach for general medical knowledge representation and inference. Different tasks, however, require designing their energy functions individually. version:1
arxiv-1709-06907 | Doctoral Advisor or Medical Condition: Towards Entity-specific Rankings of Knowledge Base Properties [Extended Version] | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06907 | id:1709.06907 author:Simon Razniewski, Vevake Balaraman, Werner Nutt category:cs.IR cs.AI cs.CL cs.DB  published:2017-09-20 summary:In knowledge bases such as Wikidata, it is possible to assert a large set of properties for entities, ranging from generic ones such as name and place of birth to highly profession-specific or background-specific ones such as doctoral advisor or medical condition. Determining a preference or ranking in this large set is a challenge in tasks such as prioritisation of edits or natural-language generation. Most previous approaches to ranking knowledge base properties are purely data-driven, that is, as we show, mistake frequency for interestingness. In this work, we have developed a human-annotated dataset of 350 preference judgments among pairs of knowledge base properties for fixed entities. From this set, we isolate a subset of pairs for which humans show a high level of agreement (87.5% on average). We show, however, that baseline and state-of-the-art techniques achieve only 61.3% precision in predicting human preferences for this subset. We then analyze what contributes to one property being rated as more important than another one, and identify that at least three factors play a role, namely (i) general frequency, (ii) applicability to similar entities and (iii) semantic similarity between property and entity. We experimentally analyze the contribution of each factor and show that a combination of techniques addressing all the three factors achieves 74% precision on the task. The dataset is available at www.kaggle.com/srazniewski/wikidatapropertyranking. version:1
arxiv-1709-06902 | Contact Force and Joint Torque Estimation Using Skin | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06902 | id:1709.06902 author:Francisco Javier Andrade Chavez, Joan Kangro, Silvio Traversaro, Francesco Nori, Daniele Pucci category:cs.RO 93C85  68T40  published:2017-09-20 summary:In this paper, we present algorithms to estimate external contact forces and joint torques using only skin, i.e. distributed tactile sensors. To deal with gaps between the tactile sensors (taxels), we use interpolation techniques. The application of these interpolation techniques allows us to estimate contact forces and joint torques without the need for expensive force-torque sensors. Validation was performed using the iCub humanoid robot. version:1
arxiv-1508-03714 | Probabilistic Asynchronous Arbitrary Pattern Formation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.03714 | id:1508.03714 author:Quentin Bramas, Sébastien Tixeuil category:cs.DC cs.MA cs.RO  published:2015-08-15 summary:We propose a new probabilistic pattern formation algorithm for oblivious mobile robots that operates inthe ASYNC model. Unlike previous work, our algorithm makes no assumptions about the local coordinatesystems of robots (the robots do not share a common "North" nor a common "Right"), yet it preserves theability from any initial configuration that contains at least 5 robots to form any general pattern (and not justpatterns that satisfy symmetricity predicates). Our proposal also gets rid of the previous assumption (in thesame model) that robots do not pause while moving (so, our robots really are fully asynchronous), and theamount of randomness is kept low -- a single random bit per robot per Look-Compute-Move cycle is used.Our protocol consists in the combination of two phases, a probabilistic leader election phase, and a deterministicpattern formation one. As the deterministic phase does not use chirality, it may be of independentinterest in the deterministic context. A noteworthy feature of our algorithm is the ability to form patternswith multiplicity points (except the gathering case due to impossibility results), a new feature in the contextof pattern formation that we believe is an important asset of our approach. version:3
arxiv-1709-06871 | Open Source Dataset and Deep Learning Models for Online Digit Gesture Recognition on Touchscreens | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06871 | id:1709.06871 author:Philip J. Corr, Guenole C. Silvestre, Chris J. Bleakley category:cs.CV cs.AI  published:2017-09-20 summary:This paper presents an evaluation of deep neural networks for recognition of digits entered by users on a smartphone touchscreen. A new large dataset of Arabic numerals was collected for training and evaluation of the network. The dataset consists of spatial and temporal touch data recorded for 80 digits entered by 260 users. Two neural network models were investigated. The first model was a 2D convolutional neural (ConvNet) network applied to bitmaps of the glpyhs created by interpolation of the sensed screen touches and its topology is similar to that of previously published models for offline handwriting recognition from scanned images. The second model used a 1D ConvNet architecture but was applied to the sequence of polar vectors connecting the touch points. The models were found to provide accuracies of 98.50% and 95.86%, respectively. The second model was much simpler, providing a reduction in the number of parameters from 1,663,370 to 287,690. The dataset has been made available to the community as an open source resource. version:1
arxiv-1709-06821 | Complexity Analysis and Efficient Measurement Selection Primitives for High-Rate Graph SLAM | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06821 | id:1709.06821 author:Kristoffer M. Frey, Ted J. Steiner, Jonathan P. How category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-20 summary:Sparsity has been widely recognized as crucial for efficient optimization in graph-based SLAM. Because the sparsity and structure of the SLAM graph reflect the set of incorporated measurements, many methods for sparsification have been proposed in hopes of reducing computation. These methods often focus narrowly on reducing edge count without regard for structure at a global level. Such structurally-naive techniques can fail to produce significant computational savings, even after aggressive pruning. In contrast, simple heuristics such as measurement decimation and keyframing are known to reliably produce significant computation reductions. To demonstrate why, we propose a quantitative metric called elimination complexity (EC) that bridges the existing analytic gap between graph structure and computation. EC quantifies the complexity of the primary computational bottleneck: the factorization step of a Gauss-Newton iteration. Using this metric, we show analytically that decimation and keyframing impose favorable global structures and therefore achieve computation reductions on the order of $r^2/9$ and $r^3$ , respectively, where $r$ is the pruning rate. We additionally present numerical results that show EC provides a good approximation of computation in both batch and incremental (iSAM2) optimization and demonstrate that pruning methods promoting global sparsity patterns outperform those that do not. version:1
arxiv-1606-04434 | Survey of Distributed Decision | http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04434 | id:1606.04434 author:Laurent Feuilloley, Pierre Fraigniaud category:cs.DC  published:2016-06-14 summary:We survey the recent distributed computing literature on checking whether a given distributed system configuration satisfies a given boolean predicate, i.e., whether the configuration is legal or illegal w.r.t. that predicate. We consider classical distributed computing environments, including mostly synchronous fault-free network computing (LOCAL and CONGEST models), but also asynchronous crash-prone shared-memory computing (WAIT-FREE model), and mobile computing (FSYNC model). version:3
arxiv-1709-06816 | Distributed Lance-William Clustering Algorithm | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06816 | id:1709.06816 author:Gavriel Yarmish, Philip Listowsky, Simon Dexter category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-20 summary:One important tool is the optimal clustering of data into useful categories. Dividing similar objects into a smaller number of clusters is of importance in many applications. These include search engines, monitoring of academic performance, biology and wireless networks. We first discuss a number of clustering methods. We present a parallel algorithm for the efficient clustering of objects into groups based on their similarity to each other. The input consists of an n by n distance matrix. This matrix would have a distance ranking for each pair of objects. The smaller the number, the more similar the two objects are to each other. We utilize parallel processors to calculate a hierarchal cluster of these n items based on this matrix. Another advantage of our method is distribution of the large n by n matrix. We have implemented our algorithm and have found it to be scalable both in terms of processing speed and storage. version:1
arxiv-1709-06815 | Affordable and Energy-Efficient Cloud Computing Clusters: The Bolzano Raspberry Pi Cloud Cluster Experiment | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06815 | id:1709.06815 author:Pekka Abrahamsson, Sven Helmer, Nattakarn Phaphoom, Lorenzo Nicolodi, Nick Preda, Lorenzo Miori, Matteo Angriman, Juha Rikkila, Xiaofeng Wang, Karim Hamily, Sara Bugoloni category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-20 summary:We present our ongoing work building a Raspberry Pi cluster consisting of 300 nodes. The unique characteristics of this single board computer pose several challenges, but also offer a number of interesting opportunities. On the one hand, a single Raspberry Pi can be purchased cheaply and has a low power consumption, which makes it possible to create an affordable and energy-efficient cluster. On the other hand, it lacks in computing power, which makes it difficult to run computationally intensive software on it. Nevertheless, by combining a large number of Raspberries into a cluster, this drawback can be (partially) offset. Here we report on the first important steps of creating our cluster: how to set up and configure the hardware and the system software, and how to monitor and maintain the system. We also discuss potential use cases for our cluster, the two most important being an inexpensive and green test bed for cloud computing research and a robust and mobile data center for operating in adverse environments. version:1
arxiv-1709-07314 | Exact Learning of Lightweight Description Logic Ontologies | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.07314 | id:1709.07314 author:Boris Konev, Carsten Lutz, Ana Ozaki, Frank Wolter category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.LO  published:2017-09-20 summary:We study the problem of learning description logic (DL) ontologies in Angluin et al.'s framework of exact learning via queries. We admit membership queries ("is a given subsumption entailed by the target ontology?") and equivalence queries ("is a given ontology equivalent to the target ontology?"). We present three main results: (1) ontologies formulated in (two relevant versions of) the description logic DL-Lite can be learned with polynomially many queries of polynomial size; (2) this is not the case for ontologies formulated in the description logic EL, even when only acyclic ontologies are admitted; and (3) ontologies formulated in a fragment of EL related to the web ontology language OWL 2 RL can be learned in polynomial time. We also show that neither membership nor equivalence queries alone are sufficient in cases (1) and (3). version:1
arxiv-1709-06772 | Temporal Pattern Mining from Evolving Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06772 | id:1709.06772 author:Angelo Impedovo, Corrado Loglisci, Michelangelo Ceci category:cs.AI  published:2017-09-20 summary:Recently, evolving networks are becoming a suitable form to model many real-world complex systems, due to their peculiarities to represent the systems and their constituting entities, the interactions between the entities and the time-variability of their structure and properties. Designing computational models able to analyze evolving networks becomes relevant in many applications. The goal of this research project is to evaluate the possible contribution of temporal pattern mining techniques in the analysis of evolving networks. In particular, we aim at exploiting available snapshots for the recognition of valuable and potentially useful knowledge about the temporal dynamics exhibited by the network over the time, without making any prior assumption about the underlying evolutionary schema. Pattern-based approaches of temporal pattern mining can be exploited to detect and characterize changes exhibited by a network over the time, starting from observed snapshots. version:1
arxiv-1709-06764 | Real-time Semantic Segmentation of Crop and Weed for Precision Agriculture Robots Leveraging Background Knowledge in CNNs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06764 | id:1709.06764 author:Andres Milioto, Philipp Lottes, Cyrill Stachniss category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-09-20 summary:Precision farming robots, which target to reduce the amount of herbicides that need to be brought out in the fields, must have the ability to identify crops and weeds in real time to trigger weeding actions. In this paper, we address the problem of CNN-based semantic segmentation of crop fields separating sugar beet plants, weeds, and background solely based on RGB data. We propose a CNN that exploits existing vegetation indexes and provides a classification in real time. Furthermore, it can be effectively re-trained to so far unseen fields with a comparably small amount of training data. We implemented and thoroughly evaluated our system on a real agricultural robot operating in different fields in Germany and Switzerland. The results show that our system generalizes well, can operate at around 20Hz, and is suitable for online operation in the fields. version:1
arxiv-1709-06762 | Transfer learning from synthetic to real images using variational autoencoders for robotic applications | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06762 | id:1709.06762 author:Tadanobu Inoue, Subhajit Chaudhury, Giovanni De Magistris, Sakyasingha Dasgupta category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-09-20 summary:Robotic learning in simulation environments provides a faster, more scalable, and safer training methodology than learning directly with physical robots. Also, synthesizing images in a simulation environment for collecting large-scale image data is easy, whereas capturing camera images in the real world is time consuming and expensive. However, learning from only synthetic images may not achieve the desired performance in real environments due to the gap between synthetic and real images. We thus propose a method that transfers learned capability of detecting object position from a simulation environment to the real world. Our method enables us to use only a very limited dataset of real images while leveraging a large dataset of synthetic images using multiple variational autoencoders. It detects object positions 6 to 7 times more precisely than the baseline of directly learning from the dataset of the real images. Object position estimation under varying environmental conditions forms one of the underlying requirement for standard robotic manipulation tasks. We show that the proposed method performs robustly in different lighting conditions or with other distractor objects present for this requirement. Using this detected object position, we transfer pick-and-place or reaching tasks learned in a simulation environment to an actual physical robot without re-training. version:1
arxiv-1709-06692 | A Voting-Based System for Ethical Decision Making | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06692 | id:1709.06692 author:Ritesh Noothigattu, Snehalkumar 'Neil' S. Gaikwad, Edmond Awad, Sohan Dsouza, Iyad Rahwan, Pradeep Ravikumar, Ariel D. Procaccia category:cs.AI cs.CY cs.GT  published:2017-09-20 summary:We present a general approach to automating ethical decisions, drawing on machine learning and computational social choice. In a nutshell, we propose to learn a model of societal preferences, and, when faced with a specific ethical dilemma at runtime, efficiently aggregate those preferences to identify a desirable choice. We provide a concrete algorithm that instantiates our approach; some of its crucial steps are informed by a new theory of swap-dominance efficient voting rules. Finally, we implement and evaluate a system for ethical decision making in the autonomous vehicle domain, using preference data collected from 1.3 million people through the Moral Machine website. version:1
arxiv-1709-06686 | Sieve: Actionable Insights from Monitored Metrics in Microservices | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06686 | id:1709.06686 author:Jörg Thalheim, Antonio Rodrigues, Istemi Ekin Akkus, Pramod Bhatotia, Ruichuan Chen, Bimal Viswanath, Lei Jiao, Christof Fetzer category:cs.DC  published:2017-09-20 summary:Major cloud computing operators provide powerful monitoring tools to understand the current (and prior) state of the distributed systems deployed in their infrastructure. While such tools provide a detailed monitoring mechanism at scale, they also pose a significant challenge for the application developers/operators to transform the huge space of monitored metrics into useful insights. These insights are essential to build effective management tools for improving the efficiency, resiliency, and dependability of distributed systems. This paper reports on our experience with building and deploying Sieve - a platform to derive actionable insights from monitored metrics in distributed systems. Sieve builds on two core components: a metrics reduction framework, and a metrics dependency extractor. More specifically, Sieve first reduces the dimensionality of metrics by automatically filtering out unimportant metrics by observing their signal over time. Afterwards, Sieve infers metrics dependencies between distributed components of the system using a predictive-causality model by testing for Granger Causality. We implemented Sieve as a generic platform and deployed it for two microservices-based distributed systems: OpenStack and ShareLatex. Our experience shows that (1) Sieve can reduce the number of metrics by at least an order of magnitude (10 - 100$\times$), while preserving the statistical equivalence to the total number of monitored metrics; (2) Sieve can dramatically improve existing monitoring infrastructures by reducing the associated overheads over the entire system stack (CPU - 80%, storage - 90%, and network - 50%); (3) Lastly, Sieve can be effective to support a wide-range of workflows in distributed systems - we showcase two such workflows: orchestration of autoscaling, and Root Cause Analysis (RCA). version:1
arxiv-1709-06673 | An Optimality Proof for the PairDiff operator for Representing Relations between Words | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06673 | id:1709.06673 author:Huda Hakami, Kohei Hayashi, Danushka Bollegala category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG cs.NE  published:2017-09-19 summary:Representing the semantic relations that exist between two given words (or entities) is an important first step in a wide-range of NLP applications such as analogical reasoning, knowledge base completion and relational information retrieval. A simple, yet surprisingly accurate method for representing a relation between two words is to compute the vector offset (\PairDiff) between the corresponding word embeddings. Despite its empirical success, it remains unclear whether \PairDiff is the best operator for obtaining a relational representation from word embeddings. In this paper, we conduct a theoretical analysis of the \PairDiff operator. In particular, we show that for word embeddings where cross-dimensional correlations are zero, \PairDiff is the only bilinear operator that can minimise the $\ell_{2}$ loss between analogous word-pairs. We experimentally show that for word embedding created using a broad range of methods, the cross-dimensional correlations in word embeddings are approximately zero, demonstrating the general applicability of our theoretical result. Moreover, we empirically verify the implications of the proven theoretical result in a series of experiments where we repeatedly discover \PairDiff as the best bilinear operator for representing semantic relations between words in several benchmark datasets. version:1
arxiv-1709-06670 | Dex-Net 3.0: Computing Robust Robot Suction Grasp Targets in Point Clouds using a New Analytic Model and Deep Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06670 | id:1709.06670 author:Jeffrey Mahler, Matthew Matl, Xinyu Liu, Albert Li, David Gealy, Ken Goldberg category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-19 summary:Suction-based end effectors are widely used in industry and are often preferred over parallel-jaw and multifinger grippers due to their ability to lift objects with a single point of contact. This ability simplifies planning, and hand-coded heuristics such as targeting planar surfaces are often used to select suction grasps based on point cloud data. In this paper, we propose a compliant suction contact model that computes the quality of the seal between the suction cup and target object and determines whether or not the suction grasp can resist an external wrench (e.g. gravity) on the object. To evaluate a grasp, we measure robustness to perturbations in end-effector and object pose, material properties, and external wrenches. We use this model to generate Dex-Net 3.0, a dataset of 2.8 million point clouds, suction grasps, and grasp robustness labels computed with 1,500 3D object models and we train a Grasp Quality Convolutional Neural Network (GQ-CNN) on this dataset to classify suction grasp robustness from point clouds. We evaluate the resulting system in 375 physical trials on an ABB YuMi fitted with a pneumatic suction gripper. When the object shape, pose, and mass properties are known, the model achieves 99$\%$ precision on a dataset of objects with Adversarial geometry such as sharply curved surfaces. Furthermore, a GQ-CNN-based policy trained on Dex-Net 3.0 achieves 99$\%$ and 97$\%$ precision respectively on a dataset of Basic and Typical objects. Code, datasets, and supplemental material can be found at http://berkeleyautomation.github.io/dex-net . version:1
arxiv-1709-06668 | Fast and Reliable Autonomous Surgical Debridement with Cable-Driven Robots Using a Two-Phase Calibration Procedure | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.06668 | id:1709.06668 author:Daniel Seita, Sanjay Krishnan, Roy Fox, Stephen McKinley, John Canny, Ken Goldberg category:cs.RO  published:2017-09-19 summary:Surgical debridement is the process of removing dead or damaged tissue to allow the remaining parts to heal. Automating this procedure could reduce surgical fatigue and facilitate teleoperation, but doing so is challenging for Robotic Surgical Assistants (RSAs) such as the da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) due to inherent non-linearities in cable-driven systems. Consequently, we propose and evaluate a two-phase calibration process. In Phase I, the robot performs a set of open-loop trajectories to obtain abundant, cheap but coarse data of camera pixels and internal robot joint values, and learns a nonlinear transformation. In Phase II, the robot uses Phase I to move systematically to target points in a printed array. Each time, a human operator manually adjusts the end-effector position by direct contact (not through teleoperation), resulting in a small, high-quality dataset. Experiments suggest that without calibration, position errors are 4.55mm. Phase I alone can reduce average error to 2.14mm, but the combination of Phase I and Phase II reduces average error to 1.08mm. We apply this combination to an approximation of debridement with randomly oriented raisins and pumpkin seeds. Using an endoscopic stereo camera with standard edge detection, experiments with 120 trials achieved success rates of 91.7% to 99.2%, slightly exceeding prior results (89.4%) and more than 2.1x faster, decreasing the time per fragment from 15.8 seconds to 7.3 seconds. Source code, data, and videos are available at https://sites.google.com/view/calib-icra/. version:1
arxiv-1709-05014 | WOAH: Preliminaries to Zero-shot Ontology Learning for Conversational Agents | http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.05014 | id:1709.05014 author:Gonzalo Estrán Buyo category:cs.CL cs.AI  published:2017-09-15 summary:The present paper presents the Weighted Ontology Approximation Heuristic (WOAH), a novel zero-shot approach to ontology estimation for conversational agents development environments. This methodology extracts verbs and nouns separately from data by distilling the dependencies obtained and applying similarity and sparsity metrics to generate an ontology estimation configurable in terms of the level of generalization. version:2
