jolt

2015 Tools
Coding Tools Jolt Award: Cloud9 IDE 

2014 Books and Software
Jolt Award: Python in Practice by Mark Summerfield
Jolt Productivity Award: Programming: Principles and Practice Using C++, 2nd Edition by Bjarne Stroustrup
Jolt Productivity Award: Single Page Web Applications: JavaScript End-to-End by Michael Mikowski and Josh Powell
Jolt Finalist: Threat Modeling by Adam Shostack
Jolt Finalist: Rethinking the Internet of Things by Francis daCosta
Jolt Finalist: Automate With Grunt by Brian Hogan

Software:
Coding Tools Jolt Award: Microsoft Visual Studio 2013
Jolt Productivity Awards: JetBrains IntelliJ IDEA v. 13, IPython Notebook

2013 Books 
Jolt Award: Lean UX by Jeff Gothelf with Josh Seiden
Jolt Productivity Award: Dependency Injection in .NET by Mark Seeman
Jolt Productivity Award: Taming Text by Grant S. Ingersoll, Thomas S. Morton, and Andrew L. Farris
Jolt Finalist: Team Geek by Brian Fitzpatrick and Ben Collins-Sussman
Jolt Finalist: NoSQL Distilled by Pramod Saldage and Martin Fowler

2012 Books 
Jolt Award: Specification by Example: How Successful Teams Deliver the Right Software by Gojko Adzic
Jolt Productivity Award: HTML5 Developer's Cookbook by Chuck Hudson and Tom Leadbetter
Jolt Productivity Award: iOS Programming: The Big Nerd Ranch Guide, Third Edition by Joe Conway and Aaron Hillegass
Jolt Finalist: Elemental Design Patterns Jason M. Smith
Jolt Finalist: Running Lean, Iterate from Plan A to a Plan That Works, Second Edition by Ash Maurya
Jolt Finalist: How Google Tests Software by James Whittaker, Jason Arbon, and Jeff Carollo

2012 Tools
Coding Tools: CodeRush by DevExpress
Mobile Tools: Adobe Phone Gap 
Testing tools: Selenium 
Third-Party Libraries: Telerik Ultimate Collection for .NET 
Utilities: Parasoft Virtualize

2011 Books 
Jolt Excellence Award: Continuous Delivery: Reliable Software Releases through Build, Test, and Deployment Automation, by Jez Humble and David Farley
Jolt Productivity Award: Mining the Social Web: Analyzing Data from Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Other Social Media Sites, by Matthew A. Russell
Jolt Productivity Award: Seven Languages in Seven Weeks: A Pragmatic Guide to Learning Programming Languages, by Bruce Tate
Jolt Finalist: The Joy of Clojure: Thinking the Clojure Way, by Michael Fogus and Chris Houser
Jolt Finalist: The Art of Computer Programming, Volume 4A: Combinatorial Algorithms, Part 1, by Donald Knuth
Jolt Finalist: Domain-Specific Languages by Martin Fowler with Rebecca Parsons

2010 Books
Jolt Excellence Award: Masterminds of Programming: Conversations with the Creators of Major Programming Languages, by Federico Biancuzzi and Shane Warden 
Jolt Productivity Award: Hello World! Computer Programming for Kids and Other Beginners, by Warren D. Sande and Carter Sande 
Jolt Productivity Award: SDLC 3.0: Beyond a Tacit Understanding of Agile, by Mark Kennaley 

2009 Books
General
Jolt Award: Adrenaline Junkies and Template Zombies: Understanding Patterns of Project Behavior, by Tom Demarco, Peter Hruschka, Tim Lister, Suzanne Robertson, James Robertson, and Steve McMenamin
Productivity Award: Emergent Design: The Evolutionary Nature of Professional Software Development, by Scott L. Bain
Productivity Award: Intellectual Property and Open Source: A Practical Guide to Protecting Code, by Van Lindberg

Technical
Jolt Award: Real World Haskell, by Bryan O'Sullivan, John Goerzen, and Don Stewart
Productivity Award: High Performance MySQL: Optimization, Backups, Replication, and More, by Baron Schwartz, Peter Zaitsev, Vadim Tkachenko, Jeremy Zawodny, Arjen Lentz, and Derek J. Balling
Productivity Award: Programming in Scala, by Martin Odersky, Lex Spoon, and Bill Venners

2008 Books 
General
Jolt Winner: Beautiful Code: Leading Programmers Explain How They Think by Andrew Oram
Productivity Winner: Manage It!: Your Guide to Modern, Pragmatic Project Management by Johanna Rothman
Productivity Winner: The Myths of Innovation by Scott Berkun
Productivity Winner: Release It!: Design and Deploy Production-Ready Software by Michael T. Nygard

Technical
Jolt Winner: Continuous Integration: Improving Software Quality and Reducing Risk by Paul M. Duvall
Productivity Winner: xUnit Test Patterns: Refactoring Test Code by Gerard Meszaros
Productivity Winner: Head First SQL: Your Brain on SQL by Lynn Beighley
Productivity Winner: The Rails Way by Obie Fernandez

2007 Books 
General
Jolt Winner: Agile Software Development: The Cooperative Game by Alistair Cockburn
Productivity Winner: Catastrophe Disentanglement: Getting Software Projects Back on Track by E. M. Bennatan
Productivity Winner: Practices of an Agile Developer: Working in the Real World by Venkat Subramaniam
Productivity Winner: Software Estimation: Demystifying the Black Art: The Black Art Demystified by Steve McConnell

Technical
Jolt Winner: Head First Object-Oriented Analysis and Design: A Brain Friendly Guide to OOA&D by Brett McLaughlin
Productivity Winner: Code Quality: The Open Source Perspective by Diomidis Spinellis
Productivity Winner: Refactoring Databases: Evolutionary Database Design by Scott W. Ambler
Productivity Winner: CSS: The Missing Manual by David Sawyer McFarland

2006 Books
General
Jolt Award: Prefactoring, by Ken Pugh
Productivity Award: Innovation Happens Elsewhere: Open Source as Business Strategy, by Ron Goldman and Richard P. Gabriel
Productivity Award: The Art of Project Management, by Scott Berkun

Technical
Jolt Award: Agile Web Development with Rails, by Dave Thomas, David Hansson, Leon Breedt, and Mike Clark
Productivity Award: Framework Design Guidelines: Conventions, Idioms, and Patterns for Reusable .NET Libraries, by Krzysztof Cwalina and Brad Abrams
Productivity Award: Practical Common Lisp, by Peter Seibel
Productivity Award: Why Programs Fail: A Guide to Systematic Debugging, by Andreas Zeller

2005 Books
General
Jolt Award: Head First Design Patterns, by Elisabeth Freeman, Eric Freeman, Bert Bates, and Kathy Sierra
Productivity Award: Joel on Software, by Joel Spolsky
Productivity Award: Refactoring to Patterns, by Joshua Kerievsky
Productivity Award: Software Factories: Assembling Applications with Patterns, Models, Frameworks, and Tools, by Jack Greenfield, Keith Short, Steve Cook, Stuart Kent, and John Crupi

Technical
Jolt Award: Better, Faster, Lighter Java, by Bruce A. Tate and Justin Gehtland
Productivity Award: C++ Coding Standards: 101 Rules, Guidelines, and Best Practices, by Herb Sutter and Andrei Alexandrescu
Productivity Award: Hibernate: A Developer's Notebook, by James Elliott
Productivity Award: Java Developer's Guide to Eclipse, Second Ed., by Jim D'Anjou, Scott Fairbrother, Dan Kehn, John Kellerman, and Pat McCarthy

2004 Books
General
Jolt Award: Waltzing with Bears: Managing Risk on Software Projects, by Tom DeMarco and Timothy Lister
Productivity Award: The Art of UNIX Programming, Eric S. Raymond
Productivity Award: Lean Software Development: An Agile Toolkit, by Mary Poppendieck and Tom Poppendieck
Productivity Award: Pragmatic Starter Kit, by Dave Thomas and Andy Hunt

Technical
Jolt Award: Test-Driven Development: A Practical Guide, by David Astels
Productivity Award: About Face 2.0, by Alan Cooper and Robert Reimann
Productivity Award: Agile Database Techniques: Effective Strategies for the Agile Software Developer, by Scott W. Ambler
Productivity Award: Code Reading: The Open Source Perspective, by Diomidis Spinellis

2003 Books
General
Jolt Award: Agile Software Development: Principles, Patterns and Practices, by Robert C. Martin
Productivity Award: Documenting Software Architectures: Views and Beyond, by Paul Clements, Felix Bachmann, Len Bass, David Garlan, James Ivers, Reed Little, Robert Nord, and Judith Stafford
Productivity Award: Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture, by Martin Fowler
Productivity Award: Test-Driven Development: By Example, by Kent Beck

Technical
Jolt Award: Thinking in Java, 3rd Ed., by Bruce Eckel
Productivity Award: Understanding Web Services, by Eric Newcomer
Productivity Award: Core Java 2, Vol. 1: Fundamentals, 6th Ed., by Cay Horstmann and Gary Cornell
Productivity Award: PHP and MySQL Web Development, by Luke Welling and Laura Thompson

2002 Books
Jolt Award: Effective Java, by Joshua Bloch
Productivity Award: Agile Software Development, by Alistair Cockburn
Productivity Award: Software Craftsmanship, by Pete McBreen
Productivity Award: Under Pressure and On Time,by Ed Sullivan

2001 Books
Jolt Award: Adaptive Software Development, by James A. Highsmith III
Productivity Award: Don't Make Me Think! A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability, by Steve Krug
Productivity Award: Secrets and Lies, by Bruce Schneier
Productivity Award: Writing Effective Use Cases, by Alistair Cockburn

2000 Books
Jolt Award: Software For Use: A Practical Guide to the Models and Methods of Usage Centered Design, by Larry Constantine and Lucy Lockwood
Productivity Award: Extreme Programming Explained, by Kent Beck
Productivity Award: Software Requirements, by Karl E. Wiegers
Productivity Award: After the Gold Rush: Creating a True Profession of Software Engineering, by Steve McConnell

1999 Books
Jolt Award: Component Software: Beyond Object-Oriented Programming, by Clemens Szyperski
Productivity Award: AntiPatterns: Refactoring Software, Architectures, and Projects in Crisis, by William Brown, Raphael Malveau, Hays McCormick, and Thomas Mowbray
Productivity Award: Software Architecture in Practice, by Len Bass, Paul Clements, Rick Kazman, and Ken Bass
Productivity Award: Thinking in Java, by Bruce Eckel

1998 Books
Jolt Award: Object-Oriented Software Construction, Second Ed., by Bertrand Meyer
Productivity Award: The Deadline: A Novel about Project Management, by Tom DeMarco
Productivity Award: UML Distilled, by Martin Fowler with Kendall Scott
Productivity Award: Building Object Applications that Work, by Scott Ambler

1997 Books
Jolt Award: Rapid Development: Taming Wild Software Schedules, by Steve McConnell
Productivity Award: The Distributed Objects Survival Guide, by Robert Orfali, Dan Harkey, and Jeri Edwards
Productivity Award: Creating a Software Engineering Culture, by Karl E. Wiegers
Productivity Award: Pattern-Oriented Software Architecture: A System of Patterns, by Frank Buschmann, Regine Meunier, Hans Rohnert, Peter Sommerlad, and Michael Stal

1996 Books
Jolt Award: Thinking in C++, by Bruce Eckel
Productivity Award: About Face: The Essentials of User Interface Design, by Alan Cooper
Productivity Award: A Discipline for Software Engineering, by Watts Humphrey
Productivity Award: What Every Programmer Should Know About Object-Oriented Design, by Meilir Page-Jones

1995 Books
Jolt Award: Essential Client/Server Survival Guide, by Robert Orfali, Dan Harkey, and Jeri Edwards
Productivity Award: Debugging the Development Process, by Steve Maguire
Productivity Award: Design Patterns, by Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, John Vlissides
Productivity Award: The Design and Evolution of C++, by Bjarne Stroustrup

1994 Books
Jolt Award: Code Complete, by Steve McConnell
Jolt Award: Object-Oriented Design and Analysis with Applications, Second Ed., by Grady Booch
Productivity Award: Applied Cryptography, by Bruce Schneier
Productivity Award: The Design and Evolution of C++, by Bjarne Stroustrup
Productivity Award: Programming on Purpose, by P. J. Plauger
Productivity Award: Writing Solid Code, by Steve Maguire

1993 Books
Jolt Award: Undocumented Windows, by Andrew Schulman, David Maxey, and Matt Pietrek
Jolt Award: Decline and Fall of the American Programmer, by Ed Yourdon
Productivity Award: Object-Oriented Software Engineering: A Use-Case Driven Approach, by Ivar Jacobson, Magnus Christerson, Patrik Jonsson, and Gunnar Overgaard
Productivity Award: Literate Programming, by Donald Knuth
Productivity Award: Effective C++, by Scott Meyers

1992 Books
Jolt Award: Object-Oriented Design with Applications, by Grady Booch
Productivity Award: Advanced C++: Programming Styles and Idioms, by James Coplien
Productivity Award: Object-Oriented Modeling and Design, by James R. Rumbaugh, Michael R. Blaha, William Lorensen, Frederick Eddy, and William Premerlani
Productivity Award: Object Lifecycles: Modeling the World in States, by Sally Shlaer and Steve Mellor

1991 Books
Jolt Award: Annotated C++ Reference Manual, by Margaret Ellis and Bjarne Stroustrup
Productivity Award: The Art of Human-Computer Interface Design, edited by Brenda Laurel
Productivity Award: Programming Windows, 2nd Ed., by Charles Petzold
Productivity Award: Turbo C++ DiskTutor, by Greg Voss and Paul Chui



stackoverflow

Code Complete (2nd Ed) by Steve McConnell
The Pragmatic Programmer
Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs 
The C Programming Language by Kernighan and Ritchie
Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code
Introduction to algorithms (Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, Stein) 
The Mythical Man-Month
The Art of Computer Programming 
Design Patterns
Compilers - Principles, Techniques, and Tools 2e
Head-First Design Patterns
Gödel, Escher, Bach
Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance
programming pearls
CODE by Charles Petzold
Effective C++ and More Effective C++
Working Effectively with Legacy Code
Peopleware
Coders at Work
Clean Code
The Inmates Are Running The Asylum: Why High Tech Products Drive Us Crazy and How to Restore the Sanity
The Little Schemer
The Seasoned Schemer
Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture
Why's (Poignant) Guide to Ruby 
Practices of an Agile Developer
Effective Java 2ed
Best Software Writing I.
The Art of Unix Programming
Elements of Style
How to Win Friends and Influence People
Writing Solid Code
Modern C++ Design
The Practice of Programming
Agile Software Development, Principles, Patterns, and Practices
Domain Driven Design 
Pragmatic Thinking and Learning: Refactor Your Wetware 
Test-Driven Development by Example
Software Estimation: Demystifying the Black Art
Foundations of Programming 
Facts and Fallacies of Software Engineering 
Don't Make Me Think
Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution
Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs
The Deadline: A Novel About Project Management
Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice in C (2nd Edition) 
My Job Went To India 
The Story About Ping
Getting Real
Dilbert's Guide To The Rest Of Your Life: Dispatches from Cubicleland
The Design of Everyday Things



MIT

8.02  Physics II (电磁学基础) 
课本: Sen-Ben Liao, "Introduction to Electricity and Magnetism (Custom)", Person Custom, 2004 

18.01 Calculus I (微积分基础，相当于高等数学上册内容) 
课本: George Simmons, “Calculus with Analytic Geometry”, McGraw-Hill, 2nd Edition, 1996 

18.03 Differential Equations(微分方程) 
课本: Edwards, C. Henry; Penney, David E. "Elementary Differential Equations with Boundary Value Problems", Prentice Hall PTR, 6th edition, 2007 

18.06 Linear Algebra(线性代数)
课本:Strang, Gilbert "Introduction to Linear Algebra" Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 4th edition, 2009 

6.042J Mathematics for Computer Science(基础离散数学) 

6.01   EECS介绍1 

6.02   EECS介绍2 

6..004 Computtation Structures(计算机体系结构) 

6.005 Elements of Software Construction(软件构建基础) 

6.006 Introduction to Algoithms(算法导论)
课本: Thomas H.Cormen, Charles E.Leiserson, Ronald L.Rivest, and Clifford Stein, "Introduction to Algorithms", MIT Press, second edition, 2001

6.033 Computer System Engineering(计算机系统工程) 
课本: Sltzer, Jerome H., Kaashoek, and  M.Frans, "Principles of Computer System Design: An Introduction", Elsevier Science & Technology Books, 2009 

6.034 Artificial Intelligence(人工智能) 
课本: Stuart Russell, Peter Norvig, "Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach", Prentice Hall, 3rd edition, 2009

6.046J Design and Analysis of Algorithms(算法设计分析) 
课本: Thomas H.Cormen, Charles E.Leiserson, Ronald L.Rivest, and Clifford Stein, "Introduction to Algorithms", MIT Press, second edition, 2001 

AUS - Advanced Undergraduate Subjects (高级课程，选择两门）
6.022J Quantitative Systems Physiology 
6.023J Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems 
6.035 Computer Language Engineering 
6.045J Automata, Computability and Complexity 
6.047 Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution 
6.049 Evolutionary Biology 
6.061 Introduction to Electric Power Systems 
6.077 Semiconductor Device Physics (Spring 2011 only) 
6.111 Introductory Digital Systems Laboratory 
6.115 Microcomputer Project Laboratory 
6.131 Power Electronics Laboratory 
6.141J Robotics: Science and Systems I 
6.142J Robotics Science and Systems II 
6.172 Performance Engineering of Software Systems 
6.173 Multicore Systems Laboratory 
6.207 Networks 
6.301 Solid-State Circuits 
6.302 Feedback Systems 
6.336J Introduction to Numerical Simulation 
6.341 Discrete-Time Signal Processing 
6.434J Statistics for Engineers and Scientists 
6.502J Introduction to Molecular Simulations 
6.503 Foundations of Algorithms and Computational Techniques in Systems Biology 
6.602 Fundamentals of Photonics 
6.608 Introduction to Particle Accelerators 
6.641 Electromagnetic Fields, Forces, and Motion 
6.701 Introduction to Nanoelectronics 
6.717 Design and Fabrication of Microelectromechanical Systems 
6.801 Machine Vision 
6.802 Computational Systems Biology 
6.803 The Human Intelligence Enterprise 
6.804J Computational Cognitive Science 
6.805 Ethics and the Law on the Electronic Frontier 
6.813 User Interface Design and Implementation 
6.814 Database Systems 
6.815 Digital and Computational Photography 
6.825 Techniques in Artificial Intelligence 
6.837 Computer Graphics 
6.840J Theory of Computation 
6.854J Advanced Algorithms 
6.857 Network and Computer Security 
6.858 Computer Systems Security 
6.863J Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge 
6.867 Machine Learning

UAT - Preparation for Undergraduate Advanced Project

UAP - Undergraduate Advanced Project (相当于毕业设计之类)

Communication Requirement(沟通课程)

Undergraduate Courses
6.00	 Introduction to Computer Science and Programming  
	Python Programming: An Introduction to Computer Science
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-00-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-fall-2008/readings/
6.001	 Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs  
	Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. 2nd ed
6.002	 Circuits and Electronics 电路与电子技术
	Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits
6.003	 Signals and Systems
	Signals and Systems. 2nd ed
6.004	 Computation Structures  
6.005	 Elements of Software Construction  
6.006	 Introduction to Algorithms  
	Introduction to Algorithms. 2nd ed
	Problem Solving with Algorithms and Data Structures Using Python
	A Guide to LaTeX: Document Preparation for Beginners and Advanced Users. 3rd ed
	Python: Essential Reference
6.00SC	 Introduction to Computer Science and Programming  
	Python Programming: An Introduction to Computer Science. 1st edition
	Exploring Python
	Learn Python the Hard Way
	A Byte of Python
6.01	 Introduction to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science I  
	The Python Tutorial
	Python for Software Design: How to Think Like a Computer Scientist
	Learning Python. 4th ed
	Official IDLE Documentation
6.011	 Introduction to Communication, Control, and Signal Processing
	Signals and Systems. 2nd ed
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
	Computer Explorations in Signals and Systems Using MATLAB
	Contemporary Linear Systems Using MATLAB
	Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 3rd ed
	Elements of Engineering Probability and Statistics
	Probability and Random Processes for Electrical Engineering. 2nd ed
	Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineers. 2nd ed
	Probability and Stochastic Processes: A Friendly Introduction for Electrical and Computer Engineers. 2nd ed
	Probability, Random Variables, and Random Processes. 2nd ed
	Principles of Communications: Systems, Modulation, and Noise. 5th ed
	Schaum's Outline of Probability, Random Variables, and Random Processes
	MATLAB® Primer. 6th ed
	The MathWorks Store
6.012	 Microelectronic Devices and Circuits 微电子器件与电路
	Microelectronics: An Integrated Approach
	Microelectronic Devices and Circuits
	Microelectronic Circuits
	Microelectronic Circuits and Devices
	Semiconductor Fundamentals. Vol. I. 2nd ed
	The PN Junction Diode. Vol. II. 2nd ed
	The Bipolar Junction Transistor. Vol. III. 2nd ed
	Field Effect Devices. Vol. IV. 2nd ed
6.013	 Electromagnetics and Applications 电磁学与应用
	Electromagnetic Waves
	Electromagnetic Fields and Energy
6.01SC	 Introduction to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science I  
6.021J	 Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues 定量生理学：细胞与组织
	Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1
	Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2
	Human Physiology, The Mechanisms Body Function
	The Physiology of Excitable Cells. 4th ed
	Principles of Neural Science
6.022J	 Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems 定量生理学：脏器传输系统
	Physiology. 2nd ed
	Physiology. 5th ed
6.023J	 Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems 在生物系统领域，部队和流动
	Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems
	Physicochemical Hydrodynamics: An Introduction
	Electromechanics of Particles. 2nd ed
	Transport Phenomena
	Cellular Biophysics - Volume 1: Transport
	AC Electrokinetics: Colloids and Nanoparticles
	Principles of Colloid and Surface Chemistry
	Molecular Driving Forces
	Electromagnetic Fields and Energy
6.024J	 Molecular, Cellular, and Tissue Biomechanics 分子，细胞和组织生物力学
	Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues. 2nd ed
	Mechanics of the Cell
	Molecular Cell Biology
	Molecular Driving Forces
	Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton
	Cytoskeletal Mechanics: Models and Measurements
	"Rods and Ropes." In Mechanics of the Cell
	An Introduction to Biomechanics
6.025J	 Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) 生物工程
6.033	 Computer System Engineering  
	Principles of Computer System Design: An Introduction
6.034	 Artificial Intelligence 人工智能  
	Artificial Intelligence. 3rd ed
	Artificial intelligence: a modern approach. 2nd edition
6.035	 Computer Language Engineering  
	Modern Compiler Implementations in Java (Tiger Book). 2nd ed
	Advanced Compiler Design and Implementation (Whale Book)
	Compilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools
	Engineering a Compiler
6.041	 Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied Probability 机率系统分析与应用概率
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory
	A First Course in Probability. 8th ed
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-041-probabilistic-systems-analysis-and-applied-probability-spring-2006/related-resources/
6.042J	 Mathematics for Computer Science 计算机科学数学  
6.045J	 Automata, Computability, and Complexity 自动机，可计算性与复杂性  
	The Nature of Computation
	Introduction to the Theory of Computation
	Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach
6.046J	 Introduction to Algorithms (SMA 5503)  
	Introduction to Algorithms. 2nd ed
	Data Structures and Algorithms
	More Programming Pearls: Confessions of a Coder
	Writing Efficient Programs
	Algorithmics: Theory and Practice
	Elementary Probability Theory with Stochastic Processes
	Graph Algorithms
	An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications. 3rd ed
	Computers and Intractibility: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness
	Handbook of Algorithms and Data Structures
	Algorithms on Strings, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology
	Fundamentals of Computer Algorithms
	Algorithms and Data Structures: Design, Correctness, Analysis
	The Art of Computer Programming. 3rd ed
	Combinatorial Optimization: Networks and Matroids
	Introduction to Combinatorial Mathematics.
	Introduction to Algorithms: A Creative Approach
	Data Structures and Algorithms
	An Introduction to the Theory of Numbers. 4th ed
	Combinatorial Optimization: Algorithms and Complexity
	Numerical Recipies in C: The Art of Scientific Computing
	Combinatorial Algorithms: Theory and Practice
	Algorithms. 2nd ed
	Introduction to the Theory of Computation
	Data Structures and Network Algorithms
6.047	 Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution 计算生物学：基因组，网络，演化
	Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids
	An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms
	Pattern Classification
6.050J	 Information and Entropy 信息与熵
6.055J	 The Art of Approximation in Science and Engineering
6.061	 Introduction to Electric Power Systems 电力系统简介
	Electric Power Principles: Sources, Conversion, Distribution and Use
6.071J	 Introduction to Electronics, Signals, and Measurement 电子学，信号与测量简介
	The Art of Electronics. 2nd ed
	Modern Instrumentation for Scientists and Engineers
	Electronics for Scientists: Physical Principles with Applications to Instrumentation
	Fundamentals of Electric Circuits. 2nd ed
	Electronics. 2nd ed
	Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design. 2nd ed
	Signals and Systems. 2nd ed
6.079	 Introduction to Convex Optimization 凸优化简介  
	Convex Optimization
	Convex Optimization Theory
	Lectures on Modern Convex Optimization: Analysis, Algorithms, and Engineering Applications 
6.07J	 Projects in Microscale Engineering for the Life Sciences 在生命科学的微型工程项目
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-410j-projects-in-microscale-engineering-for-the-life-sciences-spring-2007/readings/
6.080	 Great Ideas in Theoretical Computer Science 在理论计算机科学的伟大思想  
	Complexity Theory: A Modern Approach
	Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed
6.087	 Practical Programming in C  
	The C Programming Language. 2nd ed
6.088	 Introduction to C Memory Management and C++ Object-Oriented Programming  
6.089	 Great Ideas in Theoretical Computer Science  
6.090	 Building Programming Experience: A Lead-In to 6.001  
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-090-building-programming-experience-a-lead-in-to-6-001-january-iap-2005/related-resources/
6.091	 Hands-On Introduction to Electrical Engineering Lab Skills
6.092	 Introduction to Programming in Java  
	How to Think Like a Computer Scientist
	Introduction to Programming Using Java, Fifth Edition
	Thinking in Java, Third Edition
	Java Basics
	Java Notes
	The Java API
	Eclipse: Total Beginner Lessons
6.092	 Java Preparation for 6.170  
	Java™ in a Nutshell. 5th ed
	Java™ 1.5 Tiger: A Developer's Notebook
	Java™ API (Collection)
	Sun Tutorial
	Java™ World: "Java™ 101 Study Guide"
6.092	 Bioinformatics and Proteomics 生物信息学和蛋白质组学
	Signals and Systems. 3rd ed
	Probability, Random Variables and Stochastic Processes: Sanitary and Water Resources Engineering (Sanitary & Water Resources Engineering S)
	Microarrays for an Integrative Genomics
6.094	 Introduction to MATLAB  
	MATLAB tutorial
	Another MATLAB tutorial
6.096	 Introduction to C++  
	C++ Language Tutorial
	Wikiversity: Introduction to C++
	Learn about C++ Programming
6.096	 Algorithms for Computational Biology 计算生物学算法
	Algorithms on Strings, Trees and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology
	Introduction to Computational Biology: Maps, Sequences, and Genomes
	Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids
	An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms
6.097	 Fundamentals of Photonics: Quantum Electronics 光子学的基本原理：量子电子
	Fundamentals of Photonics
	Optics. 3rd ed
	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed
	Quantum Mechanics I
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed
	Principles of Lasers
	Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics
	Optical Resonance and Two-Level Atoms
	Photonic Devices
	Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed
6.099	 Street-Fighting Mathematics 街道战斗数学
	Street-Fighting Mathematics: The Art of Educated Guessing and Opportunistic Problem Solving
	Misteaks  and How to Find Them Before the Teacher Does. 3rd ed
	Mathematics and Plausible Reasoning
	Mathematical Discovery: On Understanding, Learning, and Teaching Problem Solving
	Div, Grad, Curl, and All That: An Informal Text on Vector Calculus. 4th ed
	An Album of Fluid Motion
6.101	 Introductory Analog Electronics Laboratory 类比电子实验概论
	Microelectronic Circuit Analysis and Design. 3rd ed
	Schaum's Outlines Electronic Devices and Circuits. 2nd ed
	Operational Amplifier Circuits
	The Art of Electronics. 2nd ed
6.111	 Introductory Digital Systems Laboratory 数字系统导论实验
	Contemporary Logic Design. 2nd ed
	Verilog® HDL. 2nd ed
6.111	 Introductory Digital Systems Laboratory
	VHDL for Programmable Logic
	VHDL Made Easy
	A Designer's Guide to VHDL Synthesis
	An Engineering Approach to Digital Design
	Computer Engineering: Hardware Design
6.152J	 Micro/Nano Processing Technology 微/纳米加工技术
	Silicon VLSI Technology: Fundamentals, Practice, and Modeling
	The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed
	Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era. Vol. 1
	VLSI Technology. 2nd ed
	VLSI Fabrication Principles: Silicon and Gallium Arsenide. 2nd ed
	Modular Series on Solid State Devices
	Physics and Technology of Semiconductor Devices
	Microelectronics Processing and Device Design
	Thin Film Processes
	Electronic Materials Science: For Integrated Circuits in Si and GaAs
	Electronic Materials: Science and Technology
	The Materials Science of Thin Films. 2nd ed
	Microsystem Design
	Fundamentals of Microfabrication: The Science of Miniaturization. 2nd ed
	Micromachined Transducers Sourcebook
	Fundamentals of Semiconductor Fabrication
	Thin Film Deposition: Principles and Practice
	The Mayfield Handbook of Technical & Scientific Writing
6.161	 Modern Optics Project Laboratory 现代光学工程实验室
	Introduction to Fourier Optics. 3rd ed
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed
	Fundamentals of Photonics
	Optics. 4th ed
	Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 5th ed
	Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 6th ed
	Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 7th ed
	Fundamentals of Optics. 4th ed
6.163	 Strobe Project Laboratory 频闪工程实验室
	Black and White Photography: A Basic Manual. 2nd 
6.170	 Laboratory in Software Engineering 在软件工程实验室  
	Program Development in Java™: Abstraction, Specification, and Object-Oriented Design
	Effective Java™: Programming Language Guide
	Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software
	Analysis Patterns: Reusable Object Models
	Refactoring: Improving the Design of Existing Code
	Software Requirements and Specifications
	Beginning Java™ 2: JDK 5 Edition
	Java™ 1.5 Tiger: A Developer's Notebook
	Java™ Puzzlers: Traps, Pitfalls, and Corner Cases
	The Java™ Programming Language. 3rd ed
	The Java™ Language Specification. 3rd ed
	Java™ in a Nutshell. 4th ed
	Thinking in Java™. 3rd ed
	
6.170	 Laboratory in Software Engineering  
	The Complete Reference
	Visual Explanations: Images and Quantities, Evidence and Narrative
6.171	 Software Engineering for Web Applications  
	The Complete Reference
	Visual Explanations: Images and Quantities, Evidence and Narrative
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-171-software-engineering-for-web-applications-fall-2003/related-resources/
6.172	 Performance Engineering of Software Systems  
	Cache-Oblivious Algorithms and Data Structures
	Multithreaded Algorithms(Introduction to Algorithms. 3rd ed)
	Reducers and Other Cilk++ Hyperobjects(Algorithms and Architectures)
	Intel 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer's Manuals
	x86 Instruction Set Reference
	The Git Community Book
6.186	 Mobile Autonomous Systems Laboratory 移动自治系统实验室
	MASLab API
	Java® Standard API
	Sun's Java®Tutorials
6.189	 A Gentle Introduction to Programming Using Python  
	How to Think Like a Computer Scientist: Learning with Python
	The Python Quick Reference (2.4)
6.189	 Multicore Programming Primer  
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-189-multicore-programming-primer-january-iap-2007/related-resources/
6.207J	 Networks  
	Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning about a Highly Connected World
	Social and Economic Networks
	Introduction to Game Theory
	Game Theory for Applied Economists
	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference
	The Wisdom of Crowds: Why the Many Are Smarter Than the Few and How Collective Wisdom Sharpens Business, Economies, Societies, and Nations
	The Wisdom of Crowds
	Linked: How Everything Is Connected to Everything Else and What It Means for Business, Science, and Everyday Life
	Micromotives and Macrobehavior
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
6.270	 Autonomous Robot Design Competition 自主机器人设计大赛
6.338J	 Applied Parallel Computing (SMA 5505)  
6.370	 Robocraft Programming Competition robocraft编程大赛
6.431	 Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied Probability 机率系统分析与应用概率
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory
	A First Course in Probability. 8th ed
6.521J	 Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues 定量生理学：细胞与组织
	Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1
	Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2
	Human Physiology, The Mechanisms Body Function
	The Physiology of Excitable Cells. 4th ed
	Principles of Neural Science
6.637	 Modern Optics Project Laboratory 现代光学工程实验室
	Introduction to Fourier Optics. 3rd ed
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed
	Fundamentals of Photonics
	Optics. 4th ed
	Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 5th ed
	Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 6th ed
	Principles of Optics: Electromagnetic Theory of Propagation, Interference and Diffraction of Light. 7th ed
	Fundamentals of Optics. 4th ed
6.690	 Introduction to Electric Power Systems
	Electric Power Principles: Sources, Conversion, Distribution and Use
6.701	 Introduction to Nanoelectronics 纳米电子学概论
6.801	 Machine Vision 机器视觉
	Robot Vision
6.803	 The Human Intelligence Enterprise 人类的智慧企业
6.804J	 Computational Cognitive Science 计算认知科学
	Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 2nd ed
6.805	 Ethics and the Law on the Electronic Frontier 电子边疆的道德与法
	The Transparent Society: Will Technology Force Us to Choose Between Privacy and Freedom?
	No Place to Hide: Behind the Scenes of Our Emerging Surveillance Society
6.806	 Ethics and the Law on the Electronic Frontier
6.814	 Database Systems  
	Readings in Database Systems (The Red Book). 4th ed
	Database Management Systems. 3rd ed
6.830	 Database Systems
6.833	 The Human Intelligence Enterprise
6.837	 Computer Graphics  
	Fundamentals of Computer Graphics. 1st ed
6.857	 Network and Computer Security  
	Cryptography: An Introduction
	Handbook of Applied Cryptography
	Applied Cryptography. 2nd ed
	Security Engineering - A Guide to Building Dependable Distributed Systems
	Cryptography Theory and Practice
	Secrets and Lies -- Digital Security in a Networked World
	SSL and TLS: Designing and Building Secure Systems
	Computer Related Risks
	Usability Engineering
	Network Security: Private Communication in a Public World. 2nd ed
	Web Security, Privacy & Commerce. 2nd ed
	The Codebreakers
6.866	 Machine Vision  
	Robot Vision
6.878	 Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution 计算生物学：基因组，网络，演化
	Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids
	An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms
	Pattern Classification
6.901	 Inventions and Patents 发明与专利
	Create or Perish
6.911	 Transcribing Prosodic Structure of Spoken Utterances with ToBI
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-911-transcribing-prosodic-structure-of-spoken-utterances-with-tobi-january-iap-2006/readings/
6.912	 Introduction to Copyright Law “著作权法”简介
6.930	 Management in Engineering 工程管理  
6.974	 Fundamentals of Photonics: Quantum Electronics 光子学的基本原理：量子电子
	Fundamentals of Photonics
	Optics. 3rd ed
	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed
	Principles of Lasers
	Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics
	Optical Resonance and Two-Level Atoms
	Photonic Devices
	Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed
6.976	 NextLab I: Designing Mobile Technologies for the Next Billion Users

Graduate Courses
6.041	 Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied Probability
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory
	A First Course in Probability. 8th ed
6.047	 Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution
	Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids
	An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms
	Pattern Classification
6.061	 Introduction to Electric Power Systems
	Electric Power Principles: Sources, Conversion, Distribution and Use
6.079	 Introduction to Convex Optimization  
	Convex Optimization
	Convex Optimization Theory
	Lectures on Modern Convex Optimization: Analysis, Algorithms, and Engineering Applications (MPS-SIAM Series on Optimization)
6.092	 Bioinformatics and Proteomics
	Signals and Systems. 3rd ed
	Probability, Random Variables and Stochastic Processes: Sanitary and Water Resources Engineering (Sanitary & Water Resources Engineering S)
	Microarrays for an Integrative Genomics
6.094	 Introduction to MATLAB  
6.097	 Fundamentals of Photonics: Quantum Electronics
	Fundamentals of Photonics
	Optics. 3rd ed
	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed
	Quantum Mechanics I
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed
	Principles of Lasers.
	Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics
	Optical Resonance and Two-Level Atoms
	Photonic Devices
	Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed
6.189	 Multicore Programming Primer  
6.231	 Dynamic Programming and Stochastic Control 动态规划与随机控制  
	Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control. Vol. I and II. 3rd ed
6.241J	 Dynamic Systems and Control 动力系统和控制
	Introduction to Dynamic Systems: Theory, Models, and Applications
	Linear Systems. Prentice Hall
	Feedback Control Theory
	Digital Control: A State-Space Approach
6.243J	 Dynamics of Nonlinear Systems 非线性系统的动力学
6.245	 Multivariable Control Systems 多变量控制系统
6.251J	 Introduction to Mathematical Programming 数学规划导论  
	Introduction to Linear Optimization
6.252J	 Nonlinear Programming 非线性规划
	Nonlinear Programming. 2nd ed
	Nonlinear Programming: Theory and Algorithms
	Linear and Nonlinear Programming. 2nd ed
	Introduction to Linear Optimization
	Principles of Mathematical Analysis. 3rd ed
6.253	 Convex Analysis and Optimization  
	Convex Optimization Theory
6.254	 Game Theory with Engineering Applications 博弈论与工程应用  
	Game Theory
	Algorithmic Game Theory
	The Theory of Learning in Games
	Microeconomic Theory
	A Course in Game Theory
	Game Theory
	Auction Theory. 2nd ed
	Dynamic Noncooperative Game Theory
	Strategic Learning and Its Limits
	Individual Strategy and Social Structure: An Evolutionary Theory of Institutions
	An Introduction to Game Theory
	Game Theory for Applied Economists
6.262	 Discrete Stochastic Processes 离散随机过程
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
6.263J	 Data Communication Networks 数据通信网络
	Data Networks (2nd Edition)
	Computer Networks (2nd Edition)
	High Performance Communication Networks
	Computer Networks. 4th ed
	TCP/IP Illustrated
	Queueing Systems, Vol 1: Theory
6.264J	 Queues: Theory and Applications 队列：理论与应用
	Queueing Systems
	Reversibility and Stochastic Networks
	Fundamentals of Queueing Networks: Performance, Asymptotics, and Optimization
6.281J	 Logistical and Transportation Planning Methods 物流与运输规划方法
	Urban Operations Research
6.301	 Solid-State Circuits 固态电路
	Troubleshooting Analog Circuits
	Bipolar and MOS Analog Integrated Circuit Design
	Analysis and Design of Analog Integrated Circuits. 5th ed
	Electronic Principles: Physics, Models, and Circuits
6.302	 Feedback Systems 反馈系统
6.331	 Advanced Circuit Techniques	
	Operational Amplifiers: Theory and Practice
	Become One with the Transistor: for Solid State Circuits
	Feedback Control Systems for Analog Circuit Design
	Bipolar and MOS Analog Integrated Circuit Design
	Troubleshooting Analog Circuits
	Analog Circuit Design: Art, Science, and Personalities
	The Art and Science of Analog Circuit Design
	The Design of CMOS Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuits
	Analysis and Design of Analog Integrated Circuits. 4th ed
	Electronic Principles: Physics, Models, and Circuits
6.334	 Power Electronics 电力电子技术
	Principles of Power Electronics
	Elements of Power Electronics
	Power Electronics: Converters, Applications, and Design. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Power Electronics
	SPICE for Power Electronics and Electric Power. 2nd ed
6.336J	 Introduction to Numerical Simulation (SMA 5211) 数值模拟导论
6.337J	 Introduction to Numerical Methods 数值方法简介
	Numerical Linear Algebra
	Templates for the Solution of Algebraic Eigenvalue Problems: a Practical Guide
	Templates for the Solution of Linear Systems: Building Blocks for Iterative Methods
6.339J	 Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations (SMA 5212) 偏微分方程数值方法
	Numerical Linear Algebra
	Analysis of the Finite Element Method
	Numerical Approximation of Partial Differential Equations
	The Numerical Solution of Integral Equations of the Second Kind
	A Multigrid Tutorial. 2nd ed
	Introduction to Partial Differential Equations: A Computational Approach
6.341	 Discrete-Time Signal Processing 离散时间信号处理
	Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 2nd ed
	Computer-Based Exercises for Signal Processing Using MATLAB® 5
	Digital Filter Design
	Multirate Digital Signal Processing
	Statistical Digital Signal Processing and Modeling
	Advanced Topics in Signal Processing
	Digital Signal Processing: Principles, Algorithms, and Applications
6.345	 Automatic Speech Recognition 自动语音识别
	Spoken Language Processing
	Statistical Methods for Speech Recognition
	Fundamentals of Speech Recognition
	Pattern Classification
	Acoustic Phonetics
6.370	 Robocraft Programming Competition
6.374	 Analysis and Design of Digital Integrated Circuits 数字集成电路分析与设计  
	Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective. 2nd ed
6.431	 Probabilistic Systems Analysis and Applied Probability 机率系统分析与应用概率  
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory
	A First Course in Probability. 8th ed
6.432	 Stochastic Processes, Detection, and Estimation 随机过程，检测和估计
	Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes. 3rd ed
	Optimal Filtering
	Fundamentals of Applied Probability Theory
	An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications. Vols. 1 and 2
	Introduction to Random Processes: with Applications to Signals and Systems. 2nd ed
	Random Processes: A Mathematical Approach for Engineers
	Probability and Stochastic Processes for Engineers
	Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing and Estimation Theory
	Digital Communication. 2nd ed
	Linear Operator Theory in Engineering and Science
	Discrete-Time Signal Processing
	Signals and Systems
	Stochastic Processes
	Statistical Signal Processing: Detection, Estimation, and Time Series Analysis
	Probability, Random Processes, and Estimation Theory for Engineers. 2nd ed
	Linear Algebra and its Applications. 3rd ed
	Discrete Random Signals and Statistical Signal Processing
	Trees, Detection, Estimation and Modulation Theory, Part I
6.435	 System Identification 系统辨识
	System Identification: A Theory for the User. 2nd ed
6.436J	 Fundamentals of Probability 概率论基础  
	Probability and Random Processes. 3rd ed
	Probability with Martingales
	Introduction to Probability. 2nd ed
	Measure Theory and Probability
	Probability and Measure. 3rd ed
	Probability: Theory and Examples. 4th ed
6.441	 Information Theory 信息论
	Elements of Information Theory. 2nd ed
	Information Theory and Reliable Communication
6.443J	 Quantum Information Science 量子信息科学
	Quantum Computation and Quantum Information
6.450	 Principles of Digital Communication I 数字通信原则
	Principles of Digital Communication
	Digital Communications. 4th ed
	Communication Systems Engineering. 2nd ed
	Principles of Communication Engineering
	Digital Modulation and Coding
	Information Theory and Reliable Communication
	Thomas. Elements of Information Theory. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Wireless Communication
	Wireless Communications
	Introduction to Linear Algebra. 3rd ed
	Fundamentals of Digital Communication
	Digital Communication. 3rd ed
6.451	 Principles of Digital Communication II
	Digital Communications. 4th ed
	Communication Systems Engineering. 3rd ed
	Digital Modulation and Coding
	Digital Communication. 2nd ed
	Principles of Digital Communication and Coding
	Principles of Communication Engineering
	Information Theory and Reliable Communication
	Elements of Information Theory
6.452	 Principles of Wireless Communications 无线通信原则
	Fundamentals of Wireless Communication
6.453	 Quantum Optical Communication 光量子通信
	Introductory Quantum Optics
	The Quantum Theory of Light
	Quantum Statistical Properties of Radiation
	Optical Coherence and Quantum Optics
	Quantum Computation and Quantum Information
6.524J	 Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics (BE.410J) 分子，细胞和组织生物力学
	Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues
	Molecular and Cell Biophysics
	Molecular Cell Biology
	Molecular Driving Forces
6.541J	 Speech Communication
	Acoustic Phonetics
	The Sound Pattern of English
	Acoustic Theory of Speech Production
	Speech Analysis, Synthesis and Perception
	Music, Language, Speech and Brain
	Preliminaries to Speech Analysis
	The Sounds of the World's Languages
	Patterns of Sounds
	Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders
	Speech Communication: Human and Machine
	Fundamentals of Speech Recognition
	Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Processing
	The Acoustics of Speech Communication: Fundamentals, Speech Perception Theory, and Technology	     The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences
6.542J	 Laboratory on the Physiology, Acoustics, and Perception of Speech 生理学，声学及语言感知实验室
	Acoustic Phonetics
	Revised ed
	The Sound Pattern of English
	The Speech Chain: The physics and biology of spoken speech. 2nd ed
	Speech Analysis, Synthesis and Perception. 2nd ed
	The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences
	Papers in Speech Communication: Speech Production
	Speech Communications: Human and Machine. 2nd ed
	The Handbook of Speech Perception
6.543J	 The Lexicon and Its Features 词典及其特点
6.551J	 Acoustics of Speech and Hearing 言语及听觉的声学
	The Speech Chain: The physics and biology of spoken speech. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Acoustics
	Acoustics
	Acoustic Phonetics
	Signals and System for Speech and Hearing
	Acoustic Systems in Biology
	Fundamentals of Hearing Science. 3rd ed
6.555J	 Biomedical Signal and Image Processing 生物医学信号与图像处理
	Discrete-Time Signal Processing. 2nd ed
	Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic Processes
	Circuits, Signals and Systems
	Signals and Systems. 2nd ed
	Signals and Systems Made Ridiculously Simple
	Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis
	Pattern Classification. 2nd ed
	Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition
	Netlab: Algorithms for Pattern Recognition. 3rd ed
	Advanced Methods and Tools for ECG Data Analysis
	Digital Processing of Speech Signals
	Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing: Principles and Practice
	Two-Dimensional Signal and Image Processing
	Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed
	Mathematics of Medical Imaging
	The Physics of Medical Imaging
	MRI in Practice. 3rd ed
	Medical Imaging Systems

6.561J	 Fields, Forces, and Flows in Biological Systems (BE.430J) 场，力，和生物系统中的流动
	Analysis of Transport Phenomena
	Molecular Cell Biology. 4th ed
	Molecular Biology of the Cell
6.581J	 Foundations of Algorithms and Computational Techniques in Systems Biology 系统生物学中的算法和计算技术的基础
	Molecular Modeling and Simulation: An Interdisciplinary Guide
	Computer Simulation of Liquids
	Numerical Linear Algebra
	Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed
	Introduction to Inverse Problems in Imaging
6.630	 Electromagnetics 电磁
	Electromagnetic Wave Theory
6.632	 Electromagnetic Wave Theory 电磁波理论
6.635	 Advanced Electromagnetism	先进的电磁
	Electromagnetic Wave Theory
6.637	 Optical Signals, Devices, and Systems 光信号，设备和系统
	Fourier Optics. 2nd ed
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed
	Fundamentals of Photonics
	Optics. 4th ed
6.641	 Electromagnetic Fields, Forces, and Motion 电磁场，力和运动
	Electromagnetic Field Theory: A Problem Solving Approach
	Electromechanical Dynamics
	Electromagnetic Fields and Energy
6.642	 Continuum Electromechanics 连续机电
	Continuum Electromechanics
	Electromagnetic Field Theory: A Problem Solving Approach
6.651J	 Introduction to Plasma Physics I 等离子体物理
	Introduction to Plasma Physics. 2nd ed
	The Plasma State
	Plasma Physics
	The Framework of Plasma Physics
	Introduction to Plasma Physics
	Electrodynamics of Particles and Plasmas
	Physics of Fully Ionized Gases. 2nd ed
	Physics of High Temperature Plasmas. 2nd ed
	Plasma Dynamics
	Plasma Physics
	Principles of Plasma Physics
	Principles of Plasma Physics - A Statistical Approach
	Ideal Magnetohydrodynamics
	Waves in Plasmas
	Plasma Diagnostic Techniques
	Principles of Plasma Diagnostics
	Plasmas and Controlled Fusion
	Plasma Physics for Nuclear Fusion
	Tokamaks. 3rd ed
	Plasma Astrophysics
6.661	 Receivers, Antennas, and Signals 接收机，天线和信号
	Digital and Analog Communication Systems
	Digital Communications-Satellite/Earth Station Engineering
	Signals and Systems
	Probability, Random Variables and Random Processes
	Information Transmission, Modulation, and Noise. 2nd ed
	Radioastronomy
	Interferometry and Synthesis in Radio Astronomy
	Introduction to Radar Systems
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications
	Electromagnetic Waves
	Digital Communications
	Detection of Light: from Ultraviolet to the Submillimeter
	Statistical and Adaptive Signal Processing
6.685	 Electric Machines 电机
	Electric Machinery. 6th ed
	Electric Motor Handbook
6.690	 Introduction to Electric Power Systems 电力系统简介
	Electric Power Principles: Sources, Conversion, Distribution and Use
6.691	 Seminar in Electric Power Systems 电力系统研讨会
	Power Systems Analysis. 2nd ed
6.695	 Engineering, Economics and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector 工程，经济和电力部门的规管
6.701	 Introduction to Nanoelectronics 纳米电子学概论
6.720J	 Integrated Microelectronic Devices 集成微电子器件
	Device Electronics for Integrated Circuits. 3rd ed
	Semiconductor Device Fundamentals
	Solid State Electronics Devices. 4th ed
	Solid State and Semiconductor Physics
	Operation and Modeling of the MOS Transistor. 2nd ed
6.728	 Applied Quantum and Statistical Physics 应用量子与统计物理
	Introduction to Applied Quantum and Statistical Physics
	Quantum Theory: A Very Short Introduction
	Introductory Quantum Mechanics. 3rd ed
	The Quantum Challenge: Modern Research on the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed
	Quantum Mechanics
	Quantum Physics. 2nd ed
	Fundamentals of Statistical and Thermal Physics
	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics
	Understanding Quantum Physics
	Understanding More Quantum Physics
	Applied Quantum Mechanics
	Quantum Physics. 2nd ed
	Thermal Physics. 2nd ed
	Statistical Physics. 2nd ed
	A Student's Guide to Fourier Transforms: With Applications in Physics and Engineering
	The Fast Fourier Transform
6.730	 Physics for Solid-State Applications 固态应用物理
	Fundamentals of Carrier Transport. 2nd ed
	Solid State Physics
6.763	 Applied Superconductivity 应用超导
	Foundations of Applied Superconductivity
6.772	 Compound Semiconductor Devices 化合物半导体器件
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-772-compound-semiconductor-devices-spring-2003/readings/
6.774	 Physics of Microfabrication: Front End Processing 微细加工物理：前端处理
	Silicon VLSI Technology: Fundamentals, Practice and Modeling
	Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era . 2nd ed
	VLSI Technology. 2nd ed
	The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed
	Thin Film Processes
	Electronic Materials Science: For Integrated Circuits in Si and GaAs
	Modular Series on Solid State Devices. Vol. 1-5
	Advanced Semiconductor Fundamentals
	Fundamentals of Modern VLSI Devices
6.776	 High Speed Communication Circuits 高速通信电路
	The Design of CMOS Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuits	
	RF Microelectronics
6.777J	 Design and Fabrication of Microelectromechanical Devices 微机电设备的设计与制作
	Microsystem Design
	Fundamentals of Microfabrication
	Micromachined Transducers Sourcebook
	An Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems Engineering
	Microtransducer CAD: Physical and Computational Aspects
	Methodology for the Modeling and Simulation of Microsystems
	Microactuators
	Microsensors: Principles and Applications
	Sensor Technology and Devices
	Acoustic Wave Sensors: Theory, Design, and Physico-Chemical Applications
	Introduction to Microelectromechanical (MEM) Microwave Systems
	Mechanics of Materials. 2nd ed
	Mechanics of Materials
	The Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication. 2nd ed
	Microsensors
	Micromechanics and MEMS
6.780	 Semiconductor Manufacturing 半导体制造
	Introduction to Statistical Quality Control. 4th ed
	Statistical Methods for Industrial Process Control
	Handbook of Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology
	Handbook of Experimental Methods for Process Improvement
	Statistical Case Studies for Industrial Process Improvement
	Statistical Applications in Process Control
	Quality Engineering Using Robust Design
	Yield Simulation for Integrated Circuits
	Introduction to Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology
	Silicon VLSI Technology -- Fundamentals, Practice and Modeling
	Microelectronics Manufacturing Diagnostics Handbook
	Handbook of Silicon Semiconductor Metrology
	Silicon Processing for the VLSI Era: Volume 1 - Process Technology
	Statistics for Experimenters
	Beyond Anova: Basics of Applied Statistics
	Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists
	Statistical Foundations of Econometric Modeling
	Manufacturing Systems Engineering
6.780J	 Control of Manufacturing Processes (SMA 6303) 生产过程的控制
	Introduction to Statistical Quality Control. 5th ed
	Fundamentals of Semiconductor Manufacturing and Process Control
	Manufacturing Processes for Engineering Materials. 3rd ed
	Statistical Quality Design and Control
	Engineering Statistics
	Random Data. 2nd ed
	Modern Control Engineering. 3rd ed
	Control System Design
6.781J	 Submicrometer and Nanometer Technology 亚微米和纳米技术
6.801	 Machine Vision  
	Robot Vision
6.803	 The Human Intelligence Enterprise
6.804J	 Computational Cognitive Science 计算认知科学
	Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach. 2nd ed
6.814	 Database Systems
	Readings in Database Systems (The Red Book). 4th ed
	Database Management Systems. 3rd ed
6.821	 Programming Languages  
	Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. 2nd ed
6.823	 Computer System Architecture
	Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, 3rd ed
	Computer Organization and Design: The Hardware/Software Interface, 3rd ed
6.824	 Distributed Computer Systems Engineering 分布式计算机系统工程  
	UNIX Network Programming, Vol. 1: The Sockets Networking API. 3rd ed
	Modern Operating Systems. 2nd ed
	Distributed Systems: Principles and Paradigms
	The Design and Implementation of the 4.4 BSD Operating System
	The C++ Programming Language. 3rd ed
	Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment. 2nd ed
6.825	 Techniques in Artificial Intelligence (SMA 5504)  
	Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (First Edition)
	Understanding Object-Oriented Programming With Java. 1st ed
	The Java Programming Language. 3rd ed
	Java In A Nutshell. 4th ed
	Java Foundation Classes In A Nutshell. 1st ed
	Thinking In Java. 3rd ed
6.826	 Principles of Computer Systems  
6.827	 Multithreaded Parallelism: Languages and Compilers  
	Implicit Parallel Programming in pH. 1st ed
6.828	 Operating System Engineering
	Lions' Commentary on UNIX® 6th Edition with Source Code
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-828-operating-system-engineering-fall-2006/related-resources/
6.829	 Computer Networks
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-829-computer-networks-fall-2002/readings/
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-829-computer-networks-fall-2002/related-resources/
6.830	 Database Systems  
	Readings in Database Systems (The Red Book). 4th ed
	Database Management Systems. 3rd ed
6.831	 User Interface Design and Implementation  
	The Design of Everyday Things
	Usability Engineering
	Designing Visual Interfaces: Communication oriented techniques
	Readings in Human-Computer Interaction: Toward the Year 2000
	Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction. 4th ed
	Human-Computer Interaction. 2nd ed
	Developing User Interfaces
	The Visual Display of Quantitative Information
	The Humane Interface: New Directions for Designing Interactive Systems
	GUI Bloopers: Don'ts and Do's for Software Developers and Web Designers
	The Psychology of Human-Computer Interaction
	Cartoon Guide to Statistics.
	Statistics for Experimenters: An Introduction to Design, Data Analysis, and Model Building
	Beyond Anova: Basics of Applied Statistics
6.832	 Underactuated Robotics
	Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering
	Applied Nonlinear Control
	Non-linear Control for Underactuated Mechanical Systems
	Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control. 3rd ed
	Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction
	Neuro-Dynamic Programming
	Planning Algorithms
6.833	 The Human Intelligence Enterprise
6.834J	 Cognitive Robotics 认知机器人
6.837	 Computer Graphics
	Fundamentals of Computer Graphics. 1st ed
6.838	 Algorithms for Computer Animation  
6.840J	 Theory of Computation  
	Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed
6.841J	 Advanced Complexity Theory  
	Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 1st ed
	Computational Complexity. 1st ed
	Handbook of Computer Science. Vol. A
	Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness
	Structural Complexity I
	Models of Computation
6.844	 Computability Theory of and with Scheme
6.845	 Quantum Complexity Theory 量子复杂性理论
	Quantum Computation and Quantum Information
	Quantum Computer Science: An Introduction
	Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach
	Introduction to the Theory of Computation. 2nd ed
6.851	 Advanced Data Structures  
6.852J	 Distributed Algorithms  
	Distributed Algorithms
	Distributed Computing: Fundamentals, Simulations, and Advanced Topics. 2nd ed
	The Art of Multiprocessor Programming
	Transactional Memory: The Theory
	Self-Stabilization
	The Theory of Timed I/O Automata. 2nd ed
6.854J	 Advanced Algorithms  
6.855J	 Network Optimization  
	Network Flows: Theory, Algorithms, and Applications
6.856J	 Randomized Algorithms  
	Randomized Algorithms
	An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications.Vol. 1
6.857	 Network and Computer Security  
	Cryptography: An Introduction
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-857-network-and-computer-security-fall-2003/related-resources/
6.863J	 Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge 自然语言和电脑对知识的表示
	Speech and Language Processing
	Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing
	Computational Complexity and Natural Language
	Natural Language Understanding
	Computational Models of Discourse
6.864	 Advanced Natural Language Processing
	Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition
	Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing
6.866	 Machine Vision  
	Robot Vision
6.867	 Machine Learning  
	Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition
	Pattern Classification. 2nd ed
	The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference and Prediction
	Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms
	Machine Learning
	Elements of Information Theory
6.868J	 The Society of Mind 心理协会
	The Society of Mind
	The Emotion Machine: Commonsense Thinking, Artificial Intelligence, and the Future of the Human Mind
6.871	 Knowledge-Based Applications Systems
6.872	 Biomedical Computing 生物医学计算
	Biomedical informatics: Computer Applications in Health Care and Biomedicine. 3rd ed
6.872J	 Medical Computing 医用电脑
	Medical Informatics: Computer Applications in Health Care and Biomedicine. 2nd ed
6.873J	 Medical Decision Support 医疗决策支援
6.874J	 Computational Functional Genomics 计算功能基因组学
6.875	 Cryptography and Cryptanalysis 加密和安全性分析
	Foundations of Cryptography: Basic Tools.
	Lecture Notes on Cryptography
6.876J	 Advanced Topics in Cryptography 密码学中的高级主题  
6.877J	 Computational Evolutionary Biology 计算演化生物学
	Evolutionary Theory: Conceptual and Mathematical Foundations
	Phylogenetic Trees Made Easy
	Principles of Population Genetics. 3rd ed
	Evolutionary Biology. 3rd ed
	Inferring Phylogenies
	Mathematical Population Genetics. 2nd ed. Vol. 1
	Genetics and the Logic of Evolution
6.878	 Computational Biology: Genomes, Networks, Evolution 计算生物学：基因组，网络，演化
	Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids
	An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms
	Pattern Classification
6.881	 Representation and Modeling for Image Analysis 图像分析的代表性和建模
6.883	 Pervasive Human Centric Computing (SMA 5508) 普遍人权中心的计算线
6.883	 Program Analysis  
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-883-program-analysis-fall-2005/readings/
6.884	 Complex Digital Systems
	Verilog HDL: A Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis. 2nd ed
	HDL Chip Design
	Principles of CMOS VLSI Design: A Systems Perspective. 2nd ed
	Application-Specific Integrated Circuits
	Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective
	Logical Effort: Designing Fast CMOS Circuits
	See MIPS Run
6.891	 Computational Evolutionary Biology 计算演化生物学
	Evolutionary Theory: Conceptual and Mathematical Foundations
	Phylogenetic Trees Made Easy
	Principles of Population Genetics. 3rd ed
	Evolutionary Biology. 3rd ed
	Inferring Phylogenies
	Mathematical Population Genetics. 2nd ed
	Genetics and the Logic of Evolution
6.892	 Computational Models of Discourse 话语的计算模型
6.895	 Essential Coding Theory 必要的编码理论
	Theory and Practice of Error-Control Codes
	The Theory of Error Correcting Codes
	Introduction to Coding Theory. 3rd ed
6.895	 Theory of Parallel Systems (SMA 5509) 平行系统理论
	LaTex: A Document Preparation System User's Guide and Reference Manual
6.896	 Theory of Parallel Hardware (SMA 5511)
6.897	 Selected Topics in Cryptography 在密码学中选定的主题
6.911	 Transcribing Prosodic Structure of Spoken Utterances with ToBI
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-911-transcribing-prosodic-structure-of-spoken-utterances-with-tobi-january-iap-2006/readings/
6.931	 Development of Inventions and Creative Ideas 发明和创意的发展
	Create or Perish: The Case for Inventions and Patents
6.933J	 The Structure of Engineering Revolutions 工程革命的结构
	Science in Action: How to Follow Scientists and Engineers through Society
	Inventing Accuracy: A Historical Sociology of Nuclear Missile Guidance
	The Innovator's Dilemma: The Revolutionary National Bestseller That Changed The Way We Do Business. 1st ed
	Visual & Statistical Thinking: Displays of Evidence for Decision Making
	Visual Explanations: Images and Quantities, Evidence and Narrative
6.938	 Engineering Risk-Benefit Analysis 工程风险 - 效益分析
	System Reliability Theory
	Making Hard Decisions. 2nd ed
	Engineering Economy. 9th ed
	Probability Concepts in Engineering Planning and Design, Basic Principles. Vol. 1
6.945	 Adventures in Advanced Symbolic Programming 在先进的符号编程的冒险
	Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs. 2nd ed.
6.946J	 Classical Mechanics: A Computational Approach 经典力学：计算方法
	Structure and Interpretation of Classical Mechanics
6.971	 Biomedical Devices Design Laboratory 生物医学设备设计实验室
6.972	 Algebraic Techniques and Semidefinite Optimization 代数技巧和半定优化
	Ideals, Varieties, and Algorithms: An Introduction to Computational Algebraic Geometry and Commutative Algebra
	Aspects of Semidefinite Programming: Interior Point Algorithms and Selected Applications
	Algorithmic Algebra
	Solving Systems of Polynomial Equations
	Handbook of Semidefinite Programming
	Fundamental Problems of Algorithmic Algebra
6.973	 Communication System Design
	Bluespec™ Language Definition
	the Digital Communication: Signal Processing course reader
6.973	 Organic Optoelectronics 有机光电子
6.974	 Engineering, Economics and Regulation of the Electric Power Sector 工程，经济和电力部门的规管
6.974	 Fundamentals of Photonics: Quantum Electronics 光子学的基本原理：量子电子
	Fundamentals of Photonics
	Optics. 3rd ed
	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed
	Quantum Mechanics I
	Optical Electronics in Modern Communications. 5th ed
	Principles of Lasers
	Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics
	Optical Resonance and Two-Level Atoms
	Photonic Devices
	Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed
6.976	 NextLab I: Designing Mobile Technologies for the Next Billion Users
6.976	 High Speed Communication Circuits and Systems 高速通信电路与系统
	The Design of CMOS Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuits
	RF Microelectronics
	A Book on C
	Microwave Transistor Amplifiers: Analysis and Design
	Digital Integrated Circuits: A Design Perspective
6.977	 Ultrafast Optics 超快光学
	Principles of Lasers. 4th ed
	Waves and Fields in Optoelectronics
	Optical Resonance and Two Level Atoms
	Elements of Quantum Optics. 3rd ed
	Ultrashort Laser Pulse Phenomena: Fundamentals, Techniques, and Applications on a Femtosecond Time Scale
	Topics in Applied Physics: Few-Cycle Laser Pulse Generation and Its Applications. Vol. 95
6.977	 Semiconductor Optoelectronics: Theory and Design 光电半导体：理论与设计
	Diode Lasers and Photonic Integrated Circuits. 1st ed
	Physics of Optoelectronic Devices
6.978J	 Communications and Information Policy 通信和信息政策
	Policy Paradox: The Art of Political Decision Making
	Digital Crossroads: American Telecommunications Policy in the Internet Age.
6.982J	 Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering 学院级科学与工程教学
	http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009/related-resources/

	

