fieldsmedal-1936 | 1936 Lars Ahlfors, Jesse Douglas |  | winner:Lars Ahlfors, Jesse Douglas description:Lars Ahlfors:Awarded medal for research on covering surfaces related to Riemann surfaces of inverse functions of entire and meromorphic functions. Opened up new fields of analysis.; Jesse Douglas:Did important work of the Plateau problem which is concerned with finding minimal surfaces connecting and determined by some fixed boundary.
fieldsmedal-1950 | 1950 Laurent Schwartz, Atle Selberg |  | winner:Laurent Schwartz, Atle Selberg description:Laurent Schwartz:Developed the theory of distributions, a new notion of generalized function motivated by the Dirac delta-function of theoretical physics.; Atle Selberg:Developed generalizations of the sieve methods of Viggo Brun; achieved major results on zeros of the Riemann zeta function; gave an elementary proof of the prime number theorem (with P. Erdős), with a generalization to prime numbers in an arbitrary arithmetic progression.
fieldsmedal-1954 | 1954 Kunihiko Kodaira, Jean-Pierre Serre |  | winner:Kunihiko Kodaira, Jean-Pierre Serre description:Kunihiko Kodaira:Achieved major results in the theory of harmonic integrals and numerous applications to Kählerian and more specifically to algebraic varieties. He demonstrated, by sheaf cohomology, that such varieties are Hodge manifolds.; Jean-Pierre Serre:Achieved major results on the homotopy groups of spheres, especially in his use of the method of spectral sequences. Reformulated and extended some of the main results of complex variable theory in terms of sheaves.
fieldsmedal-1958 | 1958 Klaus Roth, René Thom |  | winner:Klaus Roth, René Thom description:Klaus Roth:Solved in 1955 the famous Thue-Siegel problem concerning the approximation to algebraic numbers by rational numbers and proved in 1952 that a sequence with no three numbers in arithmetic progression has zero density (a conjecture of Erdös and Turán of 1935).; René Thom:In 1954 invented and developed the theory of cobordism in algebraic topology. This classification of manifolds used homotopy theory in a fundamental way and became a prime example of a general cohomology theory.
fieldsmedal-1962 | 1962 Lars Hörmander, John Milnor |  | winner:Lars Hörmander, John Milnor description:Lars Hörmander:Worked in partial differential equations. Specifically, contributed to the general theory of linear differential operators. The questions go back to one of Hilbert's problems at the 1900 congress.; John Milnor:Proved that a 7-dimensional sphere can have several differential structures; this led to the creation of the field of differential topology.
fieldsmedal-1966 | 1966 Michael Atiyah, Paul Joseph Cohen, Alexander Grothendieck, Stephen Smale |  | winner:Michael Atiyah, Paul Joseph Cohen, Alexander Grothendieck, Stephen Smale description:Michael Atiyah:Did joint work with Hirzebruch in K-theory; proved jointly with Singer the index theorem of elliptic operators on complex manifolds; worked in collaboration with Bott to prove a fixed point theorem related to the Lefschetz formula.; Paul Joseph Cohen:Used technique called forcing to prove the independence in set theory of the axiom of choice and of the generalized continuum hypothesis. The latter problem was the first of Hilbert's problems of the 1900 Congress.; Alexander Grothendieck:Built on work of Weil and Zariski and effected fundamental advances in algebraic geometry. He introduced the idea of K-theory (the Grothendieck groups and rings). Revolutionized homological algebra in his celebrated Tohoku paper; Stephen Smale:Worked in differential topology where he proved the generalized Poincaré conjecture in dimension n>=5: Every closed, n-dimensional manifold homotopy-equivalent to the n-dimensional sphere is homeomorphic to it. Introduced the method of handle-bodies to solve this and related problems.
fieldsmedal-1970 | 1970 Alan Baker, Heisuke Hironaka, John G. Thompson, Sergei Novikov |  | winner:Alan Baker, Heisuke Hironaka, John G. Thompson, Sergei Novikov description:Alan Baker:Generalized the Gelfond-Schneider theorem (the solution to Hilbert's seventh problem). From this work he generated transcendental numbers not previously identified.; Heisuke Hironaka:Generalized work of Zariski who had proved for dimension <=3 the theorem concerning the resolution of singularities on an algebraic variety. Hironaka proved the results in any dimension.; John G. Thompson:Proved jointly with W. Feit that all non-cyclic finite simple groups have even order. The extension of this work by Thompson determined the minimal simple finite groups, that is, the simple finite groups whose proper subgroups are solvable.; Sergei Novikov:Made important advances in topology, the most well-known being his proof of the topological invariance of the Pontrjagin classes of the differentiable manifold. His work included a study of the cohomology and homotopy of Thom spaces.
fieldsmedal-1974 | 1974 Enrico Bombieri, David Mumford |  | winner:Enrico Bombieri, David Mumford description:Enrico Bombieri:Major contributions in the primes, in univalent functions and the local Bieberbach conjecture, in theory of functions of several complex variables, and in theory of partial differential equations and minimal surfaces - in particular, to the solution of Bernstein's problem in higher dimensions.; David Mumford:Contributed to problems of the existence and structure of varieties of moduli, varieties whose points parametrize isomorphism classes of some type of geometric object. Also made several important contributions to the theory of algebraic surfaces.
fieldsmedal-1978 | 1978 Pierre Deligne, Charles Fefferman, Daniel Quillen, Grigori Margulis |  | winner:Pierre Deligne, Charles Fefferman, Daniel Quillen, Grigori Margulis description:Pierre Deligne:Gave solution of the three Weil conjectures concerning generalizations of the Riemann hypothesis to finite fields. His work did much to unify algebraic geometry and algebraic number theory.; Charles Fefferman:Contributed several innovations that revised the study of multidimensional complex analysis by finding correct generalizations of classical (low-dimensional) results.; Daniel Quillen:The prime architect of the higher algebraic K-theory, a new tool that successfully employed geometric and topological methods and ideas to formulate and solve major problems in algebra, particularly ring theory and module theory.; Grigori Margulis:Provided innovative analysis of the structure of Lie groups. His work belongs to combinatorics, differential geometry, ergodic theory, dynamical systems, and Lie groups.
fieldsmedal-1982 | 1982 Alain Connes, William Thurston, Shing-Tung Yau |  | winner:Alain Connes, William Thurston, Shing-Tung Yau description:Alain Connes:Contributed to the theory of operator algebras, particularly the general classification and structure theorem of factors of type III, classification of automorphisms of the hyperfinite factor, classification of injective factors, and applications of the theory of C*-algebras to foliations and differential geometry in general.; William Thurston:Revolutionized study of topology in 2 and 3 dimensions, showing interplay between analysis, topology, and geometry. Contributed idea that a very large class of closed 3-manifolds carry a hyperbolic structure.; Shing-Tung Yau:Made contributions in differential equations, also to the Calabi conjecture in algebraic geometry, to the positive mass conjecture of general relativity theory, and to real and complex Monge-Ampère equations.
fieldsmedal-1986 | 1986 Simon Donaldson, Gerd Faltings, Michael Freedman |  | winner:Simon Donaldson, Gerd Faltings, Michael Freedman description:Simon Donaldson:Received medal primarily for his work on topology of four-manifolds, especially for showing that there is a differential structure on euclidian four-space which is different from the usual structure.; Gerd Faltings:Using methods of arithmetic algebraic geometry, he received medal primarily for his proof of the Mordell Conjecture.; Michael Freedman:Developed new methods for topological analysis of four-manifolds. One of his results is a proof of the four-dimensional Poincaré Conjecture.
fieldsmedal-1990 | 1990 Vladimir Drinfeld, Vaughan F. R. Jones, Shigefumi Mori, Edward Witten |  | winner:Vladimir Drinfeld, Vaughan F. R. Jones, Shigefumi Mori, Edward Witten description:Vladimir Drinfeld:For his work on quantum groups and for his work in number theory.; Vaughan F. R. Jones:for his discovery of an unexpected link between the mathematical study of knots – a field that dates back to the 19th century – and statistical mechanics, a form of mathematics used to study complex systems with large numbers of components.; Shigefumi Mori:for the proof of Hartshorne’s conjecture and his work on the classification of three-dimensional algebraic varieties.; Edward Witten:proof in 1981 of the positive energy theorem in general relativity[57]
fieldsmedal-1994 | 1994 Jean Bourgain, Pierre-Louis Lions, Jean-Christophe Yoccoz, Efim Zelmanov |  | winner:Jean Bourgain, Pierre-Louis Lions, Jean-Christophe Yoccoz, Efim Zelmanov description:Jean Bourgain:Bourgain's work touches on several central topics of mathematical analysis: the geometry of Banach spaces, convexity in high dimensions, harmonic analysis, ergodic theory, and finally, nonlinear partial differential equations from mathematical physics.; Pierre-Louis Lions:... such nonlinear partial differential equation simply do not have smooth or even C1 solutions existing after short times. ... The only option is therefore to search for some kind of weak solution. This undertaking is in effect to figure out how to allow for certain kinds of physically correct singularities and how to forbid others. ... Lions and Crandall at last broke open the problem by focusing attention on viscosity solutions, which are defined in terms of certain inequalities holding wherever the graph of the solution is touched on one side or the other by a smooth test function.; Jean-Christophe Yoccoz:proving stability properties - dynamic stability, such as that sought for the solar system, or structural stability, meaning persistence under parameter changes of the global properties of the system.; Efim Zelmanov:For his solution to the restricted Burnside problem.
fieldsmedal-1998 | 1998 Richard Borcherds, Timothy Gowers, Maxim Kontsevich, Curtis T. McMullen |  | winner:Richard Borcherds, Timothy Gowers, Maxim Kontsevich, Curtis T. McMullen description:Richard Borcherds:for his work on the introduction of vertex algebras, the proof of the Moonshine conjecture and for his discovery of a new class of automorphic infinite products; Timothy Gowers:William Timothy Gowers has provided important contributions to functional analysis, making extensive use of methods from combination theory. These two fields apparently have little to do with each other, and a significant achievement of Gowers has been to combine these fruitfully.; Maxim Kontsevich:contributions to four problems of geometry; Curtis T. McMullen:He has made important contributions to various branches of the theory of dynamical systems, such as the algorithmic study of polynomial equations, the study of the distribution of the points of a lattice of a Lie group, hyperbolic geometry, holomorphic dynamics and the renormalization of maps of the interval.
fieldsmedal-2002 | 2002 Laurent Lafforgue, Vladimir Voevodsky |  | winner:Laurent Lafforgue, Vladimir Voevodsky description:Laurent Lafforgue:; Vladimir Voevodsky: he defined and developed motivic cohomology and the A1-homotopy theory of algebraic varieties; he proved the Milnor conjectures on the K-theory of fields
fieldsmedal-2006 | 2006 Andrei Okounkov, Grigori Perelman (declined), Terence Tao, Wendelin Werner |  | winner:Andrei Okounkov, Grigori Perelman (declined), Terence Tao, Wendelin Werner description:Andrei Okounkov:for his contributions bridging probability, representation theory and algebraic geometry; Grigori Perelman (declined):for his contributions to geometry and his revolutionary insights into the analytical and geometric structure of the Ricci flow; Terence Tao:for his contributions to partial differential equations, combinatorics, harmonic analysis and additive number theory; Wendelin Werner:for his contributions to the development of stochastic Loewner evolution, the geometry of two-dimensional Brownian motion, and conformal field theory
fieldsmedal-2010 | 2010 Elon Lindenstrauss, Ngô Bảo Châu, Stanislav Smirnov, Cédric Villani |  | winner:Elon Lindenstrauss, Ngô Bảo Châu, Stanislav Smirnov, Cédric Villani description:Elon Lindenstrauss:For his results on measure rigidity in ergodic theory, and their applications to number theory.; Ngô Bảo Châu:For his proof of the Fundamental Lemma in the theory of automorphic forms through the introduction of new algebro-geometric methods; Stanislav Smirnov:For the proof of conformal invariance of percolation and the planar Ising model in statistical physics; Cédric Villani:For his proofs of nonlinear Landau damping and convergence to equilibrium for the Boltzmann equation.
fieldsmedal-2014 | 2014 Artur Avila, Manjul Bhargava, Martin Hairer, Maryam Mirzakhani |  | winner:Artur Avila, Manjul Bhargava, Martin Hairer, Maryam Mirzakhani description:Artur Avila:for his profound contributions to dynamical systems theory, which have changed the face of the field, using the powerful idea of renormalization as a unifying principle.; Manjul Bhargava:for developing powerful new methods in the geometry of numbers, which he applied to count rings of small rank and to bound the average rank of elliptic curves.; Martin Hairer:for his outstanding contributions to the theory of stochastic partial differential equations, and in particular for the creation of a theory of regularity structures for such equations.; Maryam Mirzakhani:for her outstanding contributions to the dynamics and geometry of Riemann surfaces and their moduli spaces.
