wolfprize-math-1978 | 1978 Israel Gelfand, Carl L. Siegel |  | winner:Israel Gelfand, Carl L. Siegel description:Israel Gelfand:for his work in functional analysis, group representation, and for his seminal contributions to many areas of mathematics and its applications. West Germany:for his contributions to the theory of numbers, theory of several complex variables, and celestial mechanics.
wolfprize-math-1979 | 1979 Jean Leray, André Weil |  | winner:Jean Leray, André Weil description:Jean Leray:for pioneering work on the development and application of topological methods to the study of differential equations. France:for his inspired introduction of algebraic-geometric methods to the theory of numbers.
wolfprize-math-1980 | 1980 Henri Cartan, Andrey Kolmogorov |  | winner:Henri Cartan, Andrey Kolmogorov description:Henri Cartan:for pioneering work in algebraic topology, complex variables, homological algebra and inspired leadership of a generation of mathematicians. Soviet Union:for deep and original discoveries in Fourier analysis, probability theory, ergodic theory and dynamical systems.
wolfprize-math-1981 | 1981 Lars Ahlfors, Oscar Zariski |  | winner:Lars Ahlfors, Oscar Zariski description:Lars Ahlfors:for seminal discoveries and the creation of powerful new methods in geometric function theory. United States:creator of the modern approach to algebraic geometry, by its fusion with commutative algebra.
wolfprize-math-1982 | 1982 Hassler Whitney, Mark Krein |  | winner:Hassler Whitney, Mark Krein description:Hassler Whitney:for his fundamental work in algebraic topology, differential geometry and differential topology. Soviet Union:for his fundamental contributions to functional analysis and its applications.
wolfprize-math-1983/4 | 1983/4 Shiing-Shen Chern, Paul Erdős |  | winner:Shiing-Shen Chern, Paul Erdős description:Shiing-Shen Chern:for outstanding contributions to global differential geometry, which have profoundly influenced all mathematics. Hungary:for his numerous contributions to number theory, combinatorics, probability, set theory and mathematical analysis, and for personally stimulating mathematicians the world over.
wolfprize-math-1984/5 | 1984/5 Kunihiko Kodaira, Hans Lewy |  | winner:Kunihiko Kodaira, Hans Lewy description:Kunihiko Kodaira:for his outstanding contributions to the study of complex manifolds and algebraic varieties. West Germany:for initiating many, now classic and essential, developments in partial differential equations.
wolfprize-math-1986 | 1986 Samuel Eilenberg, Atle Selberg |  | winner:Samuel Eilenberg, Atle Selberg description:Samuel Eilenberg:for his fundamental work in algebraic topology and homological algebra. Norway:for his profound and original work on number theory and on discrete groups and automorphic forms.
wolfprize-math-1987 | 1987 Kiyoshi Itō, Peter Lax |  | winner:Kiyoshi Itō, Peter Lax description:Kiyoshi Itō:for his fundamental contributions to pure and applied probability theory, especially the creation of the stochastic differential and integral calculus. United States Hungary:for his outstanding contributions to many areas of analysis and applied mathematics.
wolfprize-math-1988 | 1988 Friedrich Hirzebruch, Lars Hörmander |  | winner:Friedrich Hirzebruch, Lars Hörmander description:Friedrich Hirzebruch:for outstanding work combining topology, algebraic geometry and differential geometry, and algebraic number theory; and for his stimulation of mathematical cooperation and research. Sweden:for fundamental work in modern analysis, in particular, the application of pseudo-differential operators and Fourier integral operators to linear partial differential equations.
wolfprize-math-1989 | 1989 Alberto Calderón, John Milnor |  | winner:Alberto Calderón, John Milnor description:Alberto Calderón:for his groundbreaking work on singular integral operators and their application to important problems in partial differential equations. United States:for ingenious and highly original discoveries in geometry, which have opened important new vistas in topology from the algebraic, combinatorial, and differentiable viewpoint.
wolfprize-math-1990 | 1990 Ennio de Giorgi, Ilya Piatetski-Shapiro |  | winner:Ennio de Giorgi, Ilya Piatetski-Shapiro description:Ennio de Giorgi:for his innovating ideas and fundamental achievements in partial differential equations and calculus of variations. Israel:for his fundamental contributions in the fields of homogeneous complex domains, discrete groups, representation theory and automorphic forms.
wolfprize-math-1992 | 1992 Lennart Carleson, John G. Thompson |  | winner:Lennart Carleson, John G. Thompson description:Lennart Carleson:for his fundamental contributions to Fourier analysis, complex analysis, quasi-conformal mappings and dynamical systems. United States:for his profound contributions to all aspects of finite group theory and connections with other branches of mathematics.
wolfprize-math-1993 | 1993 Mikhail Gromov, Jacques Tits |  | winner:Mikhail Gromov, Jacques Tits description:Mikhail Gromov:for his revolutionary contributions to global Riemannian and symplectic geometry, algebraic topology, geometric group theory and the theory of partial differential equations; Belgium:for his pioneering and fundamental contributions to the theory of the structure of algebraic and other classes of groups and in particular for the theory of buildings.
wolfprize-math-1994/5 | 1994/5 Jürgen Moser |  | winner:Jürgen Moser description:Jürgen Moser:for his fundamental work on stability in Hamiltonian mechanics and his profound and influential contributions to nonlinear differential equations.
wolfprize-math-1995/6 | 1995/6 Robert Langlands, Andrew Wiles |  | winner:Robert Langlands, Andrew Wiles description:Robert Langlands:for his path-blazing work and extraordinary insight in the fields of number theory, automorphic forms and group representation. United Kingdom:for spectacular contributions to number theory and related fields, major advances on fundamental conjectures, and for settling Fermat's last theorem.
wolfprize-math-1996/7 | 1996/7 Joseph B. Keller, Yakov G. Sinai |  | winner:Joseph B. Keller, Yakov G. Sinai description:Joseph B. Keller:for his profound and innovative contributions, in particular to electromagnetic, optical, and acoustic wave propagation and to fluid, solid, quantum and statistical mechanics. Russia:for his fundamental contributions to mathematically rigorous methods in statistical mechanics and the ergodic theory of dynamical systems and their applications in physics.
wolfprize-math-1999 | 1999 László Lovász, Elias M. Stein |  | winner:László Lovász, Elias M. Stein description:László Lovász:for his outstanding contributions to combinatorics, theoretical computer science and combinatorial optimization. United States:for his contributions to classical and Euclidean Fourier analysis and for his exceptional impact on a new generation of analysts through his eloquent teaching and writing.
wolfprize-math-2000 | 2000 Raoul Bott, Jean-Pierre Serre |  | winner:Raoul Bott, Jean-Pierre Serre description:Raoul Bott:for his deep discoveries in topology and differential geometry and their applications to Lie groups, differential operators and mathematical physics. France:for his many fundamental contributions to topology, algebraic geometry, algebra, and number theory and for his inspirational lectures and writing.
wolfprize-math-2001 | 2001 Vladimir Arnold, Saharon Shelah |  | winner:Vladimir Arnold, Saharon Shelah description:Vladimir Arnold:for his deep and influential work in a multitude of areas of mathematics, including dynamical systems, differential equations, and singularity theory. Israel:for his many fundamental contributions to mathematical logic and set theory, and their applications within other parts of mathematics.
wolfprize-math-2002/3 | 2002/3 Mikio Sato, John Tate |  | winner:Mikio Sato, John Tate description:Mikio Sato:for his creation of algebraic analysis, including hyperfunction theory and microfunction theory, holonomic quantum field theory, and a unified theory of soliton equations. United States:for his creation of fundamental concepts in algebraic number theory.
wolfprize-math-2005 | 2005 Gregory Margulis, Sergei Novikov |  | winner:Gregory Margulis, Sergei Novikov description:Gregory Margulis:for his monumental contributions to algebra, in particular to the theory of lattices in semi-simple Lie groups, and striking applications of this to ergodic theory, representation theory, number theory, combinatorics, and measure theory. Russia:for his fundamental and pioneering contributions to algebraic and differential topology, and to mathematical physics, notably the introduction of algebraic-geometric methods.
wolfprize-math-2006/7 | 2006/7 Stephen Smale, Hillel Furstenberg |  | winner:Stephen Smale, Hillel Furstenberg description:Stephen Smale:for his groundbreaking contributions that have played a fundamental role in shaping differential topology, dynamical systems, mathematical economics, and other subjects in mathematics. United States:for his profound contributions to ergodic theory, probability, topological dynamics, analysis on symmetric spaces and homogeneous flows.
wolfprize-math-2008 | 2008 Pierre Deligne, Phillip A. Griffiths, David B. Mumford |  | winner:Pierre Deligne, Phillip A. Griffiths, David B. Mumford description:Pierre Deligne:for his work on mixed Hodge theory; the Weil conjectures; the Riemann-Hilbert correspondence; and for his contributions to arithmetic. United States:for his work on variations of Hodge structures; the theory of periods of abelian integrals; and for his contributions to complex differential geometry. United States:for his work on algebraic surfaces; on geometric invariant theory; and for laying the foundations of the modern algebraic theory of moduli of curves and theta functions.
wolfprize-math-2010 | 2010 Shing-Tung Yau, Dennis P. Sullivan |  | winner:Shing-Tung Yau, Dennis P. Sullivan description:Shing-Tung Yau:for his work in geometric analysis that has had a profound and dramatic impact on many areas of geometry and physics. United States:for his innovative contributions to algebraic topology and conformal dynamics.
wolfprize-math-2012 | 2012 Michael Aschbacher, Luis Caffarelli |  | winner:Michael Aschbacher, Luis Caffarelli description:Michael Aschbacher:for his work on the theory of finite groups. Argentina:for his work on partial differential equations.
wolfprize-math-2013 | 2013 George D. Mostow, Michael Artin |  | winner:George D. Mostow, Michael Artin description:George D. Mostow:for his fundamental and pioneering contribution to geometry and Lie group theory. United States:for his fundamental contributions to algebraic geometry. His mathematical accomplishments are astonishing for their depth and their scope.
wolfprize-math-2014 | 2014 Peter Sarnak |  | winner:Peter Sarnak description:Peter Sarnak:for his deep contributions in analysis, number theory, geometry, and combinatorics.
wolfprize-math-2015 | 2015 James G. Arthur |  | winner:James G. Arthur description:James G. Arthur:for his monumental work on the trace formula and his fundamental contributions to the theory of automorphic representations of reductive groups.
