MGTECON200 | Managerial Economics | http://MGTECON200.stanford.edu | instructors:Oyer, P. (PI); Sannikov, Y. (PI) description:MGTECON 200 is a base-level course in microeconomics. It covers microeconomic concepts relevant to management, including the economics of relationships, pricing decisions, perfect competition and the "invisible hand," risk aversion and risk sharing, and moral hazard and adverse selection. This year we are piloting a "flipped classroom" where students will be expected to work through the online modules before each class and the time in class will be devoted to solving problems and discussing cases.
MGTECON203 | Managerial Economics - Accelerated | http://MGTECON203.stanford.edu | instructors:Lambert, N. (PI) description:MGTECON 203 is the more quantitative version of MGTECON 200. It uses basic math such as derivatives and algebra, as opposed to excel simulations and plots. Previous knowledge of economics is not necessary. The business world has become more quantitative and economics-oriented in the last 30 years, but many of the key ideas in economics, relating to topics such as pricing, monopoly, imperfect competition, game theory, moral hazard and adverse selection, public choice, externalities, risk aversion, capital market pricing and equilibrium, and auction theory can all be usefully approached with a relatively small amount of math. The goal is to develop a small number of intellectual tools that enables one to analyze a wide variety of economic problems.
MGTECON300 | Growth and Stabilization in the Global Economy | http://MGTECON300.stanford.edu | instructors:Jones, C. (PI); Tonetti, C. (SI) description:This course gives students the background they need to understand the broad movements in the global economy. Key topics include long-run economic growth, technological change, wage inequality, international trade, interest rates, inflation, exchange rates, and monetary policy. By the end of the course, students should be able to read and understand the discussions of economic issues in The Economist, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, or the Congressional Budget Office.
MGTECON327 | U.S. Inequality: What Can Business and Policy Do? | http://MGTECON327.stanford.edu | instructors:Mendonca, L. (PI) description:This class will analyze the growth in inequality in the US over the last several decades and how that trend is likely to continue or change in the future. We will ask if and how public policy can affect inequality. We will also focus on business's role -- what are the responsibilities of private sector companies, how does inequality affect them, and how should the growth in inequality affect their strategies? We will look at inequality in income, some of its potential sources, and its effects in other areas. Specifically, we will look at education, housing, the social safety net, migration, and the job market. The class will be very interactive and will be based on readings drawn from academic research, case studies, news, and opinion readings. We will also have guest speakers from industry, government, and non-profits. The class will be co-taught by a GSB labor economist and an advisor to policy makers with decades of business experience.LOGISTICAL NOTE: During the week of May 13, the class will not meet during the regular time slots. Instead, there will be a mandatory, all-day class field trip to explore inequality issues in depth and in person on Wednesday, May 15. If you have an academic-related reason you cannot make the trip, we will assign alternative work. However, the trip is required unless you have a conflicting class or academic obligation.
MGTECON331 | Health Law: Finance and Insurance | http://MGTECON331.stanford.edu | instructors:Kessler, D. (PI); Bundorf, M. (SI) description:This course provides the legal, institutional, and economic background necessary to understand the financing and production of health services in the US. Potential topics include: health reform, health insurance (Medicare and Medicaid, employer-sponsored insurance, the uninsured), medical malpractice and quality regulation, pharmaceuticals, the corporate practice of medicine, regulation of fraud and abuse, and international comparisons.
MGTECON349 | Smart Pricing and Market Design | http://MGTECON349.stanford.edu | instructors:Ostrovsky, M. (PI) description:This course is an Advanced Applications option in the Economics menu. The focus of the course is on pricing mechanisms and the design of marketplaces. The pricing component of the course will handle both traditional topics, such as price differentiation, and more modern ones, such as bundling and dynamic pricing. In the market design component of the course, we will consider such topics as auctions (e.g., designing auctions for selling online advertising slots) and matching (e.g., designing mechanisms for matching students to schools).
MGTECON526 | Inclusive Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction in Developing Countries | http://MGTECON526.stanford.edu | instructors:Shaw, K. (PI); Prennushi, G. (SI) description:Poverty rates have fallen markedly in countries around the world, as more households have joined the lower middle-class. Indeed, though U.S. income inequality has increased, inequality has fallen around the world. However, by developed country standards, poverty remains pervasive. What has caused the decline in rates of poverty and can we expect further decreases or can we act to accelerate the improvements? One answer is that countries that have experienced "inclusive growth", in which the growth of the economy (i.e., GDP) has elevated the incomes of the poor, have done better at creating jobs for the poor, especially in the private sector. Therefore, the class will consider the evidence on the factors that have contributed to inclusive economic growth in developing countries. A second answer as to why poverty has fallen, but remains at high levels, is that governments and aid agencies and foundations have targeted programs to the poor. This course discusses macroeconomic policy, targeted government policies, aid, and entrepreneurship in developing countries. Examples will be given from Latin America, South Asia, and Africa. The course is co-taught by a Stanford economist and a World Bank consultant and will build on examples from recent experiences. The class is aimed at GSB students who are either intellectually curious about the topic or anticipate doing business in developing countries.
MGTECON533 | Economics of Strategy and Organization | http://MGTECON533.stanford.edu | instructors:Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Aron-Gilat, A. (SI) description:The goal of this class is to combine economic theory and business practice to develop insights for business strategy and organization design. We will discuss strategies and organizations of companies, identify potential problems and explore potential solutions. Some of the topics to be covered will be why many established companies find it hard to innovate (and what strategies can mitigate those problems), business-model innovation, and what economic and practical problems arise when companies need to stop projects. The course will be based on a mixture of formal and informal cases.
MGTECON600 | Microeconomic Analysis I | http://MGTECON600.stanford.edu | instructors:Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Khojasteh, J. (GP) description:This course provides an introduction to the foundations of modern microeconomic theory. Topics include choice theory, with and without uncertainty, consumer and producer theory, dynamic choice and dynamic programming, social choice and efficiency, and fundamentals of general equilibrium.
MGTECON601 | Microeconomic Analysis II | http://MGTECON601.stanford.edu | instructors:Wilson, R. (PI) description:This course studies the roles of information, incentives and strategic behavior in markets. The rudiments of game theory are developed and applied to selected topics regarding auctions, bargaining, and firms' competitive strategies; information economics; and contracting and market design.
MGTECON602 | Auctions, Bargaining, and Pricing | http://MGTECON602.stanford.edu | instructors:Skrzypacz, A. (PI) description:This course covers mostly auction theory, bargaining theory and related parts of the literature on pricing. Key classic papers covered in the course are Myerson and Satterthwaite on dynamic bargaining, Myerson on optimal auctions, and Milgrom and Weber's classic work, the Coase Conjecture results. We also cover a few more recent developments related to these topics, including dynamic signaling and screening. In some years we also cover topics in matching theory.
MGTECON603 | Econometric Methods I | http://MGTECON603.stanford.edu | instructors:Gardete, P. (PI); Patel, A. (GP) description:This is the first course in the sequence in graduate econometrics. The course covers some of the probabilistic and statistical underpinnings of econometrics, and explores the large-sample properties of maximum likelihood estimators. You are assumed to have introductory probability and statistics and matrix theory, and to have exposure to basic real analysis. Topics covered in the course include random variables, distribution functions, functions of random variables, expectations, conditional probabilities and Bayes' law, convergence and limit laws, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, maximum likelihood estimation, and decision theory.
MGTECON604 | Econometric Methods II | http://MGTECON604.stanford.edu | instructors:Imbens, G. (PI) description:This course presents a comprehensive treatment of econometric methods used in economics, finance, marketing, and other management disciplines. Among the topics covered are: the classical linear regression analysis, linear simultaneous equations systems and instrumental variables techniques, panel data models, generalized method of moments, selection models, and limited dependent variable models. This course uses Matlab or similar computational software, but previous experience with such software is not a prerequisite. This course assumes working knowledge of undergraduate econometrics, basic linear algebra, basic probability theory, and statistics that are covered in MGTECON 603. Those who did not take MGTECON 603 or similar should see the instructor.
MGTECON605 | Econometric Methods III | http://MGTECON605.stanford.edu | instructors:Reiss, P. (PI) description:This course completes the first-year sequence in econometrics. It develops nonparametric, semiparametric and nonlinear parametric models in detail, as well as optimization methods used to estimate nonlinear models. The instructor will discuss identification issues, the statistical properties of these estimators, and how they are used in practice. Depending on student and instructor interest, we will consider advanced topics and applications, including: machine learning, simulation methods and Bayesian estimators.
MGTECON608 | Multiperson Decision Theory | http://MGTECON608.stanford.edu | instructors:Wilson, R. (PI) description:Students and faculty review and present recent research papers on basic theories and economic applications of decision theory, game theory and mechanism design. Applications include market design and analyses of incentives and strategic behavior in markets, and selected topics such as auctions, bargaining, contracting, signaling, and computation.
MGTECON610 | Macroeconomics | http://MGTECON610.stanford.edu | instructors:Jones, C. (PI); Klenow, P. (SI) description:This course covers various topics in macroeconomics and is designed to expose students to macroeconomic methods, classic papers in the field, and the latest research at the frontier.  The current focus is on economic growth.  Using theoretical and empirical tools, we consider questions like: How do we understand long-run growth in per capita income?  Why are some countries so much richer than others?  Other topics include misallocation as a source of TFP differences, the direction of technical change, growth and the environment, the rise in health spending, patenting, and international trade.This course satisfies the GSB PhD macro requirement.
MGTECON612 | Advanced Macroeconomics II | http://MGTECON612.stanford.edu | instructors:Di Tella, S. (PI); Auclert, A. (SI); Hall, R. (SI) description:This is an advanced class on monetary economics. We cover empirical evidence, neoclassical models, recent advances in New Keynesian models, monetary policy with heterogeneous agents and financial frictions, alternative models of price setting and other topics.  Students enrolled in MGTECON612 take the class for 4 units. Students develop a research proposal and present it to the instructors as the final exam. Prerequisite: Satisfaction of the economics department's core macro requirement or consent of the instructors.
MGTECON617 | Heterogeneity in Macroeconomics | http://MGTECON617.stanford.edu | instructors:Tonetti, C. (PI); Schneider, M. (SI) description:The goal of this course is to introduce students to frontier research in quantitative macroeconomics and finance with heterogeneous agents. We study models with imperfect financial markets and/or search frictions. We emphasize theory and numerical methods as well as tools to confront model predictions with both micro and macro data. Potential applications cover a wide range of topics in household finance, corporate finance and firm dynamics, asset pricing, housing and labor markets, business cycles and growth.
MGTECON618 | Social Insurance and Urban Economics | http://MGTECON618.stanford.edu | instructors:Diamond, R. (PI); Persson, P. (SI) description:The course covers various topics relating to social insurance. The first half of the course covers the rationale for government interventions into private insurance markets, adverse selection, social insurance design and the intersection between social insurance and intra-family insurance. The second half of the course covers local public policy through the lens of social insurance, and includes topics such as spatial equilibrium, placed-based policies and housing policy.
MGTECON628 | Reading Group in Industrial Organization | http://MGTECON628.stanford.edu | instructors:Benkard, L. (PI); Brown, D. (GP) description:This course meets weekly on Fridays at Noon.  The primary purpose of the course is to read and discuss current working papers in Industrial Organization and related fields (e.g., Econometrics, Marketing, and Labor).  Students are required to present papers a couple of times per quarter and both students and faculty may also present their own working papers.
MGTECON629 | Faculty Research Workshop | http://MGTECON629.stanford.edu | instructors:Shaw, K. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:Each week, a different economics faculty member will discuss his or her important and /or current research. The course is an important introduction to PhD level research topics and techniques. Attendance is mandatory.
MGTECON630 | Industrial Organization | http://MGTECON630.stanford.edu | instructors:Somaini, P. (PI); Cuesta, J. (SI); Einav, L. (SI); Alvarez, G. (GP) description:This is an introductory course in Industrial Organization. The goal is to provide broad general training in the field, introducing you to the central questions around imperfect competition, market structure, innovation and regulation, as well as the models and empirical methods commonly used to tackle these questions.
MGTECON634 | Machine Learning and Causal Inference | http://MGTECON634.stanford.edu | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Wager, S. (SI); Mora, R. (GP) description:This course will cover statistical methods based on the machine learning literature that can be used for causal inference. In economics and the social sciences more broadly, empirical analyses typically estimate the effects of counterfactual policies, such as the effect of implementing a government policy, changing a price, showing advertisements, or introducing new products. This course will review when and how machine learning methods can be used for causal inference, and it will also review recent modifications and extensions to standard methods to adapt them to causal inference and provide statistical theory for hypothesis testing. We consider causal inference methods based on randomized experiments as well as observational studies, including methods such as instrumental variables and those based on longitudinal data. We consider the estimation of average treatment effects as well as personalized policies. Lectures will focus on theoretical developments, while classwork will consist primarily of empirical applications of the methods.  Prerequisites: graduate level coursework in at least one of statistics, econometrics, or machine learning.  Students without prior exposure to causal inference will need to do additional background reading in the early weeks of the course.
MGTECON640 | Quantitative Methods for Empirical Research | http://MGTECON640.stanford.edu | instructors:Imbens, G. (PI); Brown, D. (GP) description:This is an advanced course on quantitative methods for empirical research. Students are expected to have taken a course in linear models before. In this course I will discuss modern econometric methods for nonlinear models, including maximum likelihood and generalized method of moments. The emphasis will be on how these methods are used in sophisticated empirical work in social sciences. Special topics include discrete choice models and methods for estimating treatment effects.
MGTECON652 | Personnel Economics | http://MGTECON652.stanford.edu | instructors:Lazear, E. (PI); Shaw, K. (SI) description:This seminar will examine applications of labor economics to business issues and firms' practices. Material will include both theoretical and empirical work, and the syllabus will range from classics in Personnel Economics to current (unpublished) research. Some of the topics to be covered include, but are not limited to, compensation practices, assignment of decision rights, organizational structure, attracting, retaining, and displacing employees, and workplace practices (such as team-based organization, profit sharing, etc.)
MGTECON691 | PhD Directed Reading | http://MGTECON691.stanford.edu | instructors:Akbarpour, M. (PI); Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Saloner, G. (PI); Sannikov, Y. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Wilson, R. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
MGTECON692 | PhD Dissertation Research | http://MGTECON692.stanford.edu | instructors:Akbarpour, M. (PI); Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Saloner, G. (PI); Sannikov, Y. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
MGTECON698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | http://MGTECON698.stanford.edu | instructors:Akbarpour, M. (PI); Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Saloner, G. (PI); Sannikov, Y. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
MGTECON699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | http://MGTECON699.stanford.edu | instructors:Akbarpour, M. (PI); Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Saloner, G. (PI); Sannikov, Y. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
MGTECON802 | TGR Dissertation | http://MGTECON802.stanford.edu | instructors:Akbarpour, M. (PI); Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Saloner, G. (PI); Sannikov, Y. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI) description:
