14.00 | Undergraduate Internship in Economics |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult D. Donaldson term:U (IAP, Summer) description:For Course 14 students participating in off-campus internship experiences in economics. Before registering for this subject, students must have an employment offer from a company or organization and must identify a Course 14 supervisor. Upon completion of the internship, student must submit a letter from the employer describing the work accomplished, along with a substantive final report from the student approved by the MIT supervisor. Subject to departmental approval. Consult departmental undergraduate office.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
14.000 | Graduate Internship in Economics |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Consult R. Caballero term:G (IAP, Summer) description:For Course 14 students participating in off-campus internship experiences in economics. Before registering for this subject, students must have an employment offer from a company or organization and must identify a Course 14 supervisor. Upon completion of the internship, student must submit a letter from the employer describing the work accomplished, along with a substantive final report from the student approved by the MIT supervisor. Subject to departmental approval. Consult departmental graduate office.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
14.001 | Data Economics and Development Policy Summer Internship |  | prereq:permission of department instructors:E. Duflo term:G (Summer) description:Provides students in the blended DEDP Master's program the opportunity to synthesize their coursework and professional experience in development economics and data analysis. In the context of a summer internship, students apply the knowledge gained in the program towards a project with a host organization, typically in the development sector. Students will be supported in finding a suitable opportunity or research project. All internship placements are subject to approval by the program director. Each student must write a capstone project report. Restricted to blended DEDP MASc students.  0-1-0 units
14.003 | Microeconomic Theory and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-03-microeconomic-theory-and-public-policy-fall-2016 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights prereq:14.01 or permission of instructor instructors:D. Autor, N. Agarwal term:G (Fall, Spring) description:Applies microeconomic theory to analysis of public policy. Builds from microeconomic model of consumer behavior; extends to operation of single and multiple markets and analysis of why markets sometimes fail. Empirical examples to evaluate theory, focusing on the casual effects of policy interventions on economic outcomes. Topics include minimum wages and employment, food stamps and consumer welfare, economics of risk and safety regulation, the value of education, and gains from international trade. Graduate students are expected to complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.03 4-0-8 units
14.009 | Economics and Society's Toughest Problems (New) |  | prereq:none instructors:B. Olken term:U (Fall) description:Should we trade more with China? Why are some countries poor, and some countries rich? Why are the 1% getting richer? Should the US have universal health insurance? How can you fix failing schools? What should we do to prevent the next Great Recession? Economics shows you how to think about some of the toughest problems facing society -- and how to use data to get some answers. This exploratory course will feature a series of lectures by MIT's economics faculty, showing how their cutting-edge research can help you answer these questions and more. Subject can count toward the 9-unit discovery-focused credit limit for first year students.  1-0-2 units
14.01 | Principles of Microeconomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-01-principles-of-microeconomics-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams and solutions prereq:none instructors:J. Gruber, S. Ellison term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Introduces microeconomic concepts and analysis, supply and demand analysis, theories of the firm and individual behavior, competition and monopoly, and welfare economics. Applications to problems of current economic policy.  3-0-9 units. HASS-S
14.02 | Principles of Macroeconomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-02-principles-of-macroeconomics-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:none instructors:M. Beraja, R. Caballero term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Provides an overview of macroeconomic issues including the determination of national income, economic growth, unemployment, inflation, interest rates, and exchange rates. Introduces basic macroeconomic models and illustrates key principles through applications to the experience of the US and other economies. Explores a range of current policy debates, such as the economic effects of monetary and fiscal policy, the causes and consequences of the 2008 global financial crisis, and the factors that influence long-term growth in living standards. Lectures are recorded and available for students with scheduling conflicts.  3-0-9 units. HASS-S
14.03 | Microeconomic Theory and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-03-microeconomic-theory-and-public-policy-fall-2016 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights prereq:14.01 or permission of instructor instructors:T. Salz, N. Agarwal term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Applies microeconomic theory to analysis of public policy. Builds from microeconomic model of consumer behavior; extends to operation of single and multiple markets and analysis of why markets sometimes fail. Empirical examples to evaluate theory, focusing on the casual effects of policy interventions on economic outcomes. Topics include minimum wages and employment, food stamps and consumer welfare, economics of risk and safety regulation, the value of education, and gains from international trade. Subject meets with 14.003 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.04 | Intermediate Microeconomic Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-04-intermediate-microeconomic-theory-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams (no solutions) prereq:calculus ii (gir) and 14.01 instructors:R. Townsend term:U (Fall) description:Analysis of consumer and producer decisions including analysis of competitive and monopolistic markets. Price-based partial and general equilibrium analysis. Introduction to game theory as a foundation for the strategic analysis of economic situations. Imperfect competition, dynamic games among firms. Failures of general equilibrium theory and their resolutions: externalities, public goods, incomplete information settings, signaling, screening, insurance, alternative market mechanisms, auctions, design of markets.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.05 | Intermediate Macroeconomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-05-intermediate-macroeconomics-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.01 and ( 14.02 or permission of instructor) instructors:A. Simsek term:U (Spring) description:Uses the tools of macroeconomics to investigate various macroeconomic issues in depth. Topics range from economic growth and inequality in the long run to economic stability and financial crises in the short run. Surveys many economic models used today. Requires a substantial research paper on the economics of long-run economic growth.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.06 | Advanced Macroeconomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-06-intermediate-macroeconomic-theory-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.01 and 14.02 instructors:G. M. Angeletos term:U (Spring) description:Blends a thorough study of the theoretical foundations of modern macroeconomics with a review of useful mathematical tools, such as dynamic programming, optimal control, and dynamic systems. Develops comfort with formal macroeconomic reasoning and deepens understanding of key macroeconomic phenomena, such as business cycles. Goes on to study more specific topics, such as unemployment, financial crises, and the role of fiscal and monetary policy. Special attention to reviewing relevant facts and disentangling them from their popular interpretations. Uses insights and tools from game theory. Includes applications to recent and historical events.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.07 | Financial Markets and the Macroeconomy |  | prereq:14.01 and 14.02 instructors:A. Simsek term:U (Fall) description:Analyzes the macroeconomic effects of financial markets, with emphasis on understanding financial crises. Surveys the benchmark theories of asset pricing, investment, and the capital structure. Topics include risk, arbitrage, financial market equilibrium, and market efficiency. Also introduces financial frictions, and analyzes the mechanisms by which frictions cause financial crises; focuses on asymmetric information, leverage, financial intermediation, belief disagreements, asset bubbles, fire sales, bank runs, interconnections, and complexity.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.08 | Technical Topics in Economics |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:Consult Department Headquarters term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Considers technical issues of current research interest in economics.  4-0-8 units
14.09 | Reading Seminar in Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-09-financial-crises-january-iap-2016 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.04 and 14.06 instructors:D. Donaldson term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Reading and discussion of particular topics in economics. Open to undergraduate students by arrangement with individual faculty members. Consult Department Headquarters.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
14.10 | Reading Seminar in Economics |  | prereq:14.04 and 14.06 instructors:D. Donaldson term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Reading and discussion of particular topics in economics. Open to undergraduate students by arrangement with individual faculty members. Consult Department Headquarters.  Units arranged
14.11 | Topics in Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-11-insights-from-game-theory-into-social-behavior-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Assignments: written (no examples) prereq:14.01 instructors:Consult Department Headquarters term:U (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Considers issues of current research interest in economics.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.12 | Economic Applications of Game Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-12-economic-applications-of-game-theory-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:14.01 and (6.041b or permission of instructor) instructors:M. Yildiz term:U (Fall) description:Analysis of strategic behavior in multi-person economic settings. Introduction to solution concepts, such as rationalizability, backwards induction, Nash equilibrium, subgame-perfect equilibrium, and sequential equilibrium, with a strong emphasis on the assumptions behind these solution concepts. Issues of incomplete information, such as signaling and reputation formation. Applications drawn from microeconomics and political economy.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.121 | Microeconomic Theory I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-121-microeconomic-theory-i-fall-2015 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.04 and permission of instructor instructors:P. Pathak term:G (Fall; first half of term) description:Covers consumer and producer theory, markets and competition, general equilibrium and the welfare theorems; featuring applications, uncertainty, identification and restrictions models place on data. Enrollment limited; preference to PhD students.  3-0-3 units
14.122 | Microeconomic Theory II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-122-microeconomic-theory-ii-fall-2002 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.121 and permission of instructor instructors:G. Ellison term:G (Fall; second half of term) description:Introduction to game theory. Topics include normal form and extensive form games, and games with incomplete information. Enrollment limited.  3-0-3 units
14.123 | Microeconomic Theory III | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-123-microeconomic-theory-iii-spring-2015 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:14.121 14.122 and permission of instructor instructors:D. Fudenberg term:G (Spring; first half of term) description:Models of individual decision-making under certainty and uncertainty. Additional topics in game theory. Enrollment limited.  3-0-3 units
14.124 | Microeconomic Theory IV | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-124-microeconomic-theory-iv-spring-2017 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:14.123 or permission of instructor instructors:A. Wolitzky term:G (Spring; second half of term) description:Introduction to statistical decision theory, incentive contracting (moral hazard and adverse selection), mechanism design and incomplete contracting. Enrollment limited.  3-0-3 units
14.125 | Market Design |  | prereq:14.124 instructors:P. Pathak term:G (Spring) description:Theory and practice of market design, building on ideas from microeconomics, game theory and mechanism design. Prominent case studies include auctions, labor markets, school choice, prediction markets, financial markets, and organ exchange clearinghouses.  4-0-8 units
14.126 | Game Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-126-game-theory-spring-2016 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.122 instructors:D. Fudenberg, M. Yildiz term:G (Spring) description:Rigorous investigation of the evolutionary and epistemic foundations of solution concepts, such as rationalizability and Nash equilibrium. Covers classical topics, such as repeated games, bargaining, reputation, and supermodular games as well as new topics such as global games, heterogeneous priors, psychological games, and games without expected utility maximization. Applications provided when available.  3-0-9 units
14.129 | Advanced Contract Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-129-advanced-contract-theory-spring-2005 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.121 14.281 or permission of instructor instructors:Consult R. Townsend term:G (Spring; first half of term) description:Recent developments in contract theory. Includes advanced models of moral hazard, adverse selection, mechanism design and incomplete contracts with applications to theory of the firm, organizational design, and financial structure.  3-0-3 units
14.13 | Psychology and Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-13-economics-and-psychology-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.01 instructors:F. Schilbach term:U (Spring) description:Introduces the theoretical and empirical literature of behavioral economics. Examines important and systematic departures from the standard models in economics by incorporating insights from psychology and other social sciences. Covers theory and evidence on time, risk, and social preferences; beliefs and learning; emotions; limited attention; and frames, defaults, and nudges. Studies applications to many different areas, such as credit card debt, procrastination, retirement savings, addiction, portfolio choice, poverty, labor supply, happiness, and government policy. Students participate in surveys and experiments in class, review evidence from lab experiments, examine how the results can be integrated into models, and test models using field and lab data. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.131 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.130 | Reading Economic Theory |  | prereq:14.121 and 14.451 instructors:D. Fudenberg term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Fall) description:Class will read and discuss current research in economic theory with a focus on game theory, decision theory, and behavioral economics. Students will be expected to make one presentation and to read and post comments on every paper by the day before the paper is presented. Permission of the instructor required, and auditors are not allowed.  2-0-10 units
14.131 | Psychology and Economics |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:F. Schilbach term:G (Spring) description:Introduces the theoretical and empirical literature of behavioral economics. Examines important and systematic departures from the standard models in economics by incorporating insights from psychology and other social sciences. Covers theory and evidence on time, risk, and social preferences; beliefs and learning; emotions; limited attention; and frames, defaults, and nudges. Studies applications to many different areas, such as credit card debt, procrastination, retirement savings, addiction, portfolio choice, poverty, labor supply, happiness, and government policy. Students participate in surveys and experiments in class, review evidence from lab experiments, examine how the results can be integrated into models, and test models using field and lab data.  Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.13 4-0-8 units
14.137 | Psychology and Economics |  | prereq:none instructors:D. Prelec term:G (Spring) description:Examines "psychology appreciation" for economics students. Aims to enhance knowledge and intuition about psychological processes in areas relevant to economics. Increases understanding of psychology as an experimental discipline, with its own distinct rules and style of argument. Topics include self-knowledge, cognitive dissonance, self-deception, emotions, social norms, self-control, learning, mental accounting, memory, individual and group behavior, and some personality and psycho-analytic models. Within each of these topics, we showcase effective and central experiments and discuss their role in the development of psychological theory. Term paper required. Same subject as 9.822[J] 4-0-8 units
14.147 | Topics in Game Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-147-topics-in-game-theory-fall-2009 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: written (no examples) prereq:14.126 instructors:D. Fudenberg term:G (Fall) description:Advanced subject on topics of current research interest.  4-0-8 units
14.15 | Networks |  | prereq:6.041 or 14.30 instructors:A. Wolitzky term:U (Spring) description:Highlights common principles that permeate the functioning of diverse technological, economic and social networks. Utilizes three sets of tools for analyzing networks--random graph models, optimization, and game theory--to study informational and learning cascades; economic and financial networks; social influence networks; formation of social groups; communication networks and the Internet; consensus and gossiping; spread and control of epidemics; control and use of energy networks; and biological networks. Same subject as 6.207[J] 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.16 | Strategy and Information | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-16-strategy-and-information-spring-2016 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.01 or permission of instructor instructors:M. Yildiz term:U (Spring) description:Covers modern applications of game theory where incomplete information plays an important role. Applications include bargaining, auctions, global games, market design, information design, and network economics.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.160 | Behavioral Economics |  | prereq:14.122 instructors:A. Banerjee,  F. Schilbach term:G (Spring) description:Covers recent theory and empirical evidence in behavioral economics. Topics include deviations from the neoclassical model in terms of (i) preferences (present bias, reference dependence, social preferences), (ii) beliefs (overconfidence, projection bias), and (iii) decision-making (cognition, attention, framing, persuasion), as well as (iv) market reactions to such deviations. Applications will cover a large range of fields, including labor and public economics, industrial organization, health economics, finance, and development economics.  4-0-8 units
14.18 | Mathematical Economic Modeling |  | prereq:14.04 14.12 14.15[j] or 14.19 instructors:Consult Department Headquarters term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Guides students through the process of developing and analyzing formal economic models and effectively communicating their results. Topics include decision theory, game theory, voting, and matching. Instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Prior coursework in microeconomic theory and/or proof-based mathematics required.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.19 | Market Design |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:P. Pathak term:U (Fall) description:Covers the design and operation of organized markets, building on ideas from microeconomic and game theory. Topics may include mechanism design, auctions, matching markets, and other resource allocation problems.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.191 | Independent Research Paper |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Under supervision of a faculty member approved by Graduate Registration Officer, student writes a substantial, probably publishable research paper. Must be completed by the end of a student's second year to satisfy the departmental minor requirement.  0-12-0 units
14.192 | Advanced Research and Communication (New) |  | prereq:14.124 14.382 and 14.454 instructors:Consult Department Headquarters term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring) description:Guides second-year Economics PhD students through the process of conducting and communicating economic research. Students choose topics for research projects, develop research strategies, carry out analyses, and write and present research papers. Limited to second year Economics PhD students.  2-4-6 units
14.193 | Advanced Seminar in Economics |  | prereq:14.121 and 14.451 instructors:Consult Department headquarters term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Reading and discussion of current topics in economics. Open to advanced graduate students by arrangement with individual members of the staff.  Units arranged
14.195 | Reading Seminar in Economics |  | prereq:14.121 instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Reading and discussion of current topics in economics. Open to advanced graduate students by arrangement with individual members of the staff.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
14.197 | Independent Research |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Under supervision of a faculty member approved by Graduate Registration Officer, student conducts independent research.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
14.198, 14.199 | Teaching Introductory Economics |  | prereq:none instructors:14.198: J. Gruber, C. Rothschild. 14.199: R. Caballero, M. Beraja term:G (Fall, Spring) description:Required of teaching assistants in introductory economics ( 14.01 and 14.02 ), under supervision of the faculty member in charge of the subject.  2-0-2 units
14.20 | Industrial Organization: Competitive Strategy and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-20-industrial-organization-and-public-policy-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:14.01 instructors:N. Rose term:U (Spring) description:Analyzes the current debate over the rise of monopolies, the strategic behavior and performance of firms in imperfectly competitive markets, and the role of competition policy. Topics include monopoly power; pricing, product choice, and innovation decisions by firms in oligopoly markets; static and dynamic measurement of market performance; and incentives in organizations. Requires regular participation in class discussion and teamwork in a competitive strategy game. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.200 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.200 | Industrial Organization: Competitive Strategy and Public Policy (New) |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:N. Rose term:G (Spring) description:Analyzes the current debate over the rise of monopolies, the strategic behavior and performance of firms in imperfectly competitive markets, and the role of competition policy. Topics include monopoly power; pricing, product choice, and innovation decisions by firms in oligopoly markets; static and dynamic measurement of market performance; and incentives in organizations. Requires regular participation in class discussion and teamwork in a competitive strategy game. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.20 4-0-8 units
14.21 | Health Economics |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:J. E. Harris term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Applies theoretical and empirical tools of economics to problems of health and medical care delivery. Concentrates on selected topics such as decision-making under uncertainty, cost-benefit analysis, health insurance, physician remuneration, government regulation, health care systems of developing countries, and the economics of AIDS.  3-0-9 units. HASS-S
14.26 | Economics of Incentives: Theory and Applications |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:R. Gibbons term:U (Spring) description:Provides a rigorous, but not overly technical introduction to the economic theory of incentives and organization together with a varying set of applications. These include, among others, the optimal design of sales and CEO incentive schemes; the impact of incentives on risk taking and innovation; tournament design; the analysis of venture capital and other forms of financial incentive contracts; relational and behavioral aspects of incentive contracts; and various organizational design problems. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Limited to 60. Same subject as 15.039[J] Subject meets with 14.260 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.260 | Economics of Incentives: Theory and Applications (New) |  | prereq:none instructors:R. Gibbons term:G (Spring) description:Provides a rigorous, but not overly technical introduction to the economic theory of incentives and organization together with a varying set of applications. These include, among others, the optimal design of sales and CEO incentive schemes; the impact of incentives on risk taking and innovation; tournament design; the analysis of venture capital and other forms of financial incentive contracts; relational and behavioral aspects of incentive contracts; and various organizational design problems. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Limited to 60. Subject meets with 14.26[J] , 15.039[J] 4-0-8 units
14.27 | Economics and E-Commerce | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-27-economics-and-e-commerce-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Assignments: written with examples, Exams and solutions prereq:14.01 and ( 6.041 or 14.30 ) instructors:S. Ellison term:U (Fall) description:Uses theoretical economic models and empirical evidence to help understand the growth and future of e-commerce. Economic models help frame class discussions of, among other topics, content provision, privacy, piracy, sales taxation, group purchasing, price search, and advertising on the internet. Empirical project and paper required.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.271 | Industrial Organization I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-271-industrial-organization-i-fall-2013 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.04 instructors:N. Agarwal, G. Ellison term:G (Fall) description:Covers theoretical and empirical work dealing with the structure, behavior, and performance of firms and markets and core issues in antitrust. Topics include: the organization of the firm, monopoly, price discrimination, oligopoly, and auctions. Theoretical and empirical work are integrated in each area.  5-0-7 units
14.272 | Industrial Organization II |  | prereq:14.271 instructors:N. Rose term:G (Spring) description:Continuation of 14.271 , which focuses on government interventions in monopoly and oligopoly markets, and addresses both competition and regulatory policy. Topics include horizontal merger policy and demand estimation, vertical integration and vertical restraints, and the theory and practice of economic regulation.  Applications include the political economy of regulation; the performance of economic regulation; deregulation in sectors, including electric power, transportation, and financial services; and pharmaceutical and environmental regulation in imperfectly competitive product markets.  5-0-7 units
14.273 | Advanced Topics in Industrial Organization |  | prereq:14.271 instructors:N. Agarwal, T. Salz term:G (Spring) description:Empirical analysis of theoretically derived models of market behavior. Varied topics include demand estimation, differentiated products, production functions, analysis of market power, entry and exit, vertical relationships, auctions, matching markets, network externalities, dynamic oligopoly, moral hazard and adverse selection. Discussion will focus on methodological issues, including identification, estimation, counter-factual analysis and simulation techniques.  5-0-7 units
14.281 | Contract Economics |  | prereq:14.124 instructors:S. Morris term:G (Fall) description:Covers theoretical research on contracts in static as well as dynamic settings. Emphasis is on canonical models in contracting (agency theory, mechanism design, incomplete contracting) illustrated by major areas of application (e.g. compensation, labor and capital markets, property rights, organizational design, corporate finance).  4-0-8 units
14.282 | Introduction to Organizational Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-282-organizational-economics-spring-2009 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: written (no examples) prereq:14.124 instructors:R. Gibbons, J. Van Reenen term:G (Fall) description:Begins with survey of contract theory for organizational economists, then introduces the main areas of the field, including the boundary of the firm; decision-making, employment, structures and processes in organizations; and organizations other than firms.  5-0-7 units
14.283 | Advanced Topics in Organizational Economics I |  | prereq:14.282 instructors:R. Gibbons term:G (Spring; first half of term) description:Builds on the work done in 14.282 to develop more in-depth analysis of topics in the field.  2-0-4 units
14.284 | Advanced Topics in Organizational Economics II |  | prereq:14.282 instructors:J. Van Reenen term:G (Spring; second half of term) description:Builds on the work done in 14.282 to develop more in-depth analysis of topics in the field.  2-0-4 units
14.30 | Introduction to Statistical Methods in Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-30-introduction-to-statistical-methods-in-economics-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams (no solutions) prereq:calculus ii (gir) instructors:A. Abadie term:U (Fall) description:Self-contained introduction to probability and statistics with applications in economics and the social sciences.  Covers elements of probability theory, statistical estimation and inference, regression analysis, causal inference, and program evaluation. Couples methods with applications and with assignments involving data analysis. Uses basic calculus and matrix algebra.  Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. May not count toward HASS requirement. Subject meets with 14.300 4-0-8 units. REST
14.300 | Introduction to Statistical Methods in Economics |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) instructors:A. Abadie, K. Evdokimov term:G (Fall) description:Self-contained introduction to probability and statistics with applications in economics and the social sciences. Covers elements of probability theory, statistical estimation and inference, regression analysis, causal inference, and program evaluation. Couples methods with applications and with assignments involving data analysis. Uses basic calculus and matrix algebra. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.30 4-0-8 units
14.310 | Data Analysis for Social Scientists |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult E. Duflo term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Introduces methods for harnessing data to answer questions of cultural, social, economic, and policy interest. Presents essential notions of probability and statistics. Covers techniques in modern data analysis: regression and econometrics, prediction, design of experiment, randomized control trials (and A/B testing), machine learning, data visualization, analysis of network data, and geographic information systems. Projects include analysis of data with a written description and interpretation of results; may involve gathering of original data or use of existing data sets. Applications drawn from real world examples and frontier research. Instruction in use of the statistical package R. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments.  4-0-8 units
14.32 | Econometric Data Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-32-econometrics-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.30 instructors:A. Mikusheva, J. Angrist term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Introduces multiple regression methods for causal inference and descriptive analysis in economics and related disciplines. Extensions include instrumental variables methods, analysis of randomized experiments and quasi-experimental research designs, and regression with time series data. Develops the skills needed to conduct - and critique - empirical studies in economics and related fields. Students complete an empirical project with a written description and interpretation of results; this may involve original data collection or use of existing data sets. Applications drawn from real-world examples and frontier research. Familiarity with statistical programming languages is helpful. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.320 4-4-4 units. Institute LAB
14.320 | Econometric Data Science |  | prereq:14.300 instructors:A. Mikusheva, J. Angrist term:G (Fall, Spring) description:Introduces multiple regression methods for causal inference and descriptive analysis in economics and related disciplines. Extensions include instrumental variables methods, analysis of randomized experiments and quasi-experimental research designs, and regression with time series data. Develops the skills needed to conduct - and critique - empirical studies in economics and related fields. Students complete an empirical project with a written description and interpretation of results; this may involve original data collection or use of existing data sets. Applications drawn from real-world examples and frontier research. Familiarity with statistical programming languages is helpful. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.32 4-4-4 units
14.33 | Research and Communication in Economics: Topics, Methods, and Implementation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-33-economics-research-and-communication-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: written (no examples) prereq:14.32 and ( 14.01 or 14.02 ) instructors:D. Donaldson, S. Jaeger term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Exposes students to the process of conducting independent research in empirical economics and effectively communicating the results of the research. Emphasizes econometric analysis of an assigned economic question and culminates in each student choosing an original topic, performing appropriate analysis, and delivering oral and written project reports.  3-4-5 units. HASS-S
14.36 | Advanced Econometrics |  | prereq:14.32 instructors:J. Angrist, V. Chernozhukov term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Emphasizes econometric theory, methods, and applications using regression, instrumental variables, differences-in-differences, regression discontinuity designs, machine learning and big data sets, and problems related to standard errors and statistical inference. Includes a project with a theoretical, written and data-analytic component. Familiarity with Stata or a similar statistical programming language recommended. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.387 4-0-8 units
14.380 | Statistical Method in Economics (New) |  | prereq:calculus ii (gir) and permission of instructor instructors:A. Mikusheva term:G (Fall; first half of term) description:Introduction to probability and statistics as background for advanced econometrics. Covers elements of probability theory, sampling theory, asymptotic approximations, hypothesis testing, and maximum-likelihood methods. Illustrations from economics and application of these concepts to economic problems. Limited to 40.  3-0-3 units
14.381 | Applied Econometrics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-381-statistical-method-in-economics-fall-2018 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.380 or permission of instructor instructors:J. Angrist term:G (Fall; second half of term) description:Explains basic econometric ideas and methods through empirical applications, emphasizing cross-sectional causal inference. Topics may include randomized trials, regression, instrumental variables, differences-in-differences, regression discontinuity designs, and problems related to standard errors and statistical inference. Includes an empirical project.  3-0-3 units
14.382 | Econometrics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-382-econometrics-spring-2017 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.381 or permission of instructor instructors:W. Newey term:G (Spring) description:Covers key models as well as identification and estimation methods used in modern econometrics. Presents modern ways to set up problems and do better estimation and inference than the current empirical practice. Introduces generalized method of moments and the method of M-estimators in addition to more modern versions of these methods dealing with important issues, such as weak identification or biases arising in high dimensions. Also discusses the bootstrap and explores very high dimensional formulations, or "big data." Students gain practical experience by applying the methods to real data sets. Enrollment limited.  5-0-7 units
14.384 | Time Series Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-384-time-series-analysis-fall-2013 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.382 or permission of instructor instructors:A. Mikusheva term:G (Fall) description:Studies theory and application of time series methods in econometrics, including spectral analysis, estimation with stationary and non-stationary processes, VARs, factor models, unit roots, cointegration, estimation of DSGE models, and Bayesian methods. Enrollment limited.  5-0-7 units
14.385 | Nonlinear Econometric Analysis | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-385-nonlinear-econometric-analysis-fall-2007 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.382 or permission of instructor instructors:A. Abadie, W. Newey term:G (Fall) description:Studies micro-econometric models, including large sample theory for estimation and hypothesis testing, generalized method of moments, estimation of censored and truncated specifications, quantile regression, structural estimation, nonparametric and semiparametric estimation, panel data, bootstrapping, and simulation methods. Methods illustrated with economic applications. Enrollment limited.  5-0-7 units
14.386 | New Econometric Methods | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-386-new-econometric-methods-spring-2007 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.382 instructors:A. Abadie, W. Newey term:G (Spring) description:Focuses on recent developments in econometrics, especially structural estimation. Topics include nonseparable models, models of imperfect competition, auction models, duration models, and nonlinear panel data. Results illustrated with economic applications.  4-0-8 units
14.387 | Applied Econometrics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-387-applied-econometrics-mostly-harmless-big-data-fall-2014 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Instructor insights prereq:14.382 instructors:J. Angrist, V. Chernozhukov term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Emphasizes econometric theory, methods, and applications using regression, instrumental variables, differences-in-differences, regression discontinuity designs, machine learning and big data sets, and problems related to standard errors and statistical inference. Includes a project with a theoretical, written and data-analytic component. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.36 4-0-8 units
14.391 | Workshop in Economic Research |  | prereq:14.124 and 14.454 instructors:Staff term:G (Fall) description:Develops research ability of students through intensive discussion of dissertation research as it proceeds, individual or group research projects, and critical appraisal of current reported research. Workshops divided into various fields, depending on interest and size.  2-0-10 units
14.392 | Workshop in Economic Research |  | prereq:14.124 and 14.454 instructors:Staff term:G (Spring) description:Develops research ability of students through intensive discussion of dissertation research as it proceeds, individual or group research projects, and critical appraisal of current reported research. Workshops divided into various fields, depending on interest and size.  2-0-10 units
14.399 | Seminar in Data Economics and Development Policy |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:E. Duflo term:G (Spring) description:Group study of current topics in development policy and research.  Includes student presentations and invited speakers. Restricted to blended DEDP MASc students.  2-0-10 units
14.41 | Public Finance and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-41-public-finance-and-public-policy-fall-2010 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams and solutions prereq:14.01 instructors:J. Gruber term:U (Fall) description:Explores the role of government in the economy, applying tools of basic microeconomics to answer important policy questions such as government response to global warming, school choice by K-12 students, Social Security versus private retirement savings accounts, government versus private health insurance, setting income tax rates for individuals and corporations. Students taking the graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.410 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.410 | Public Finance and Public Policy |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:J. Gruber term:G (Fall) description:Explores the role of government in the economy, applying tools of basic microeconomics to answer important policy questions such as government response to global warming, school choice by K-12 students, Social Security versus private retirement savings accounts, government versus private health insurance, setting income tax rates for individuals and corporations. Students taking the graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.41 4-0-8 units
14.416 | Asset Pricing |  | prereq:none instructors:L. Kogan, L. Schmidt term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 15.470[J] . Same subject as 15.470[J] 4-0-8 units
14.42 | Environmental Policy and Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-42-environmental-policy-and-economics-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.01 instructors:Consult Department Headquarters term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Investigates the proper role of government in the regulation of the environment. Presents tools necessary to estimate the costs and benefits of a variety of environmental policies. Focuses on both conceptual thinking and quantitative evaluation of environmental issues. Gives particular attention to climate change: defines the major concepts underlying the climate problem; examines the measurement of climate damages as well as the costs of mitigating them; and discusses the various policy options available to communities, countries, and international coalitions. Completion of 14.30 or equivalent statistics subject strongly recommended. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.420 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.420 | Environmental Policy and Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-42-environmental-policy-and-economics-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.01 instructors:Consult Department Headquarters term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: G (Spring) description:Investigates the proper role of government in the regulation of the environment. Presents tools necessary to estimate the costs and benefits of a variety of environmental policies. Focuses on both conceptual thinking and quantitative evaluation of environmental issues. Gives particular attention to climate change: defines the major concepts underlying the climate problem; examines the measurement of climate damages as well as the costs of mitigating them; and discusses the various policy options available to communities, countries, and international coalitions. Completion of 14.30 or equivalent statistics subject strongly recommended. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.42 4-0-8 units
14.43 | Economics of Energy, Innovation, and Sustainability |  | prereq:14.01 or 15.0111 instructors:J. Li term:U (Fall) description:See description under subject 15.0201[J] . Same subject as 15.0201[J] 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.44 | Energy Economics and Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-44-energy-economics-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Images on Flickr prereq:14.01 or 15.0111 instructors:C. Knittel term:U (Spring) description:Analyzes business and public policy issues in energy markets and in the environmental markets to which they are closely tied. Examines the economic determinants of industry structure and evolution of competition among firms in these industries. Investigates successful and unsuccessful strategies for entering new markets and competing in existing markets. Industries studied include oil, natural gas, coal, electricity, and transportation. Topics include climate change and environmental policy, the role of speculation in energy markets, the political economy of energy policies, and market power and antitrust. Two team-based simulation games, representing the world oil market and a deregulated electricity market, act to cement the concepts covered in lecture. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Limited to 60. Same subject as 15.037[J] 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.440 | Advanced Corporate Finance |  | prereq:none instructors:D. Thesmar, A. Schoar term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 15.473[J] . Primarily for doctoral students in finance, economics, and accounting. Same subject as 15.473[J] 3-0-9 units
14.441 | Corporate Finance |  | prereq:none instructors:A. Schoar, D. Thesmar term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 15.471[J] . Same subject as 15.471[J] 3-0-9 units
14.442 | Advanced Asset Pricing |  | prereq:none instructors:D. Greenwald term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject 15.472[J] . Primarily for doctoral students in finance, economics, and accounting. Same subject as 15.472[J] 3-0-9 units
14.444 | Energy Economics and Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-44-energy-economics-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Images on Flickr prereq:14.01 or 15.0111 instructors:C. Knittel term:G (Spring) description:Theoretical and empirical perspectives on individual and industrial demand for energy, energy supply, energy markets, and public policies affecting energy markets. Discusses aspects of the oil, natural gas, electricity, and nuclear power sectors. Examines energy tax, price regulation, deregulation, energy efficiency and policies for controlling pollution and CO 2 emissions. Students taking the graduate version complete additional assignments. Limited to 60. Same subject as 15.038[J] 4-0-8 units
14.448 | Current Topics in Finance |  | prereq:none instructors:A. Malenko, C. Palmer, L. Schmidt, A. Verdelhan term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 15.474[J] . Primarily for doctoral students in accounting, economics, and finance. Same subject as 15.474[J] 3-0-9 units
14.449 | Current Research in Financial Economics |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, Spring) description:See description under subject 15.475[J] . Restricted to doctoral students. Same subject as 15.475[J] 3-0-3 units
14.451 | Dynamic Optimization Methods with Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-451-dynamic-optimization-methods-with-applications-fall-2009 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.06 and permission of instructor instructors:A. Simsek term:G (Fall; first half of term) description:Provides an introduction to dynamic optimization methods, including discrete-time dynamic programming in non-stochastic and stochastic environments, and continuous time methods including the Pontryagin maximum principle. Applications may include the Ramsey model, irreversible investment models, and consumption choices under uncertainty. Enrollment limited.  3-0-3 units
14.452 | Economic Growth | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-452-economic-growth-fall-2016 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.451 and permission of instructor instructors:D. Acemoglu term:G (Fall; second half of term) description:Introduces the sources and modeling of economic growth and income differences across nations. Topics include an introduction to dynamic general equilibrium theory, the neoclassical growth model, overlapping generations, determinants of technological progress, endogenous growth models, measurement of technological progress, the role of human capital in economic growth, and growth in a global economy. Enrollment limited.  3-0-3 units
14.453 | Economic Fluctuations | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-453-macroeconomic-theory-iii-fall-2006 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions, Exams (no solutions), Images on Flickr prereq:14.452 and permission of instructor instructors:G. M. Angeletos term:G (Spring; first half of term) description:Investigation of why aggregate economic activity fluctuates, and the role of policy in affecting fluctuations. Topics include the link between monetary policy and output, the economic cost of aggregate fluctuations, the costs and benefits of price stability, and the role of central banks. Introduction to real business cycle and new Keynesian models. Enrollment limited.  3-0-3 units
14.454 | Economic Crises | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-454-economic-crises-spring-2011 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:14.453 and permission of instructor instructors:R. Caballero term:G (Spring; second half of term) description:Provides an overview of models of the business cycle caused by financial markets' frictions and shocks. Topics include credit crunch, collateral shocks, bank runs, contagion, speculative bubbles, credit booms, leverage, safe asset shortages, capital flows and sudden stops. Enrollment limited.  3-0-3 units
14.46 | Innovation Policy and the Economy |  | prereq:none instructors:H. Williams term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Designed for students interested in how to best design innovation-related public policies. Addresses questions such as whether the patent system helps or hinders innovation, how the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) should allocate its funding across diseases, and whether the US would benefit from raising caps on the employment of skilled immigrants through the H-1B visa program. Presentations and writing assignments strengthen skills for effective communication.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S; CI-H
14.461 | Advanced Macroeconomics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-461-advanced-macroeconomics-i-fall-2012 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.122 and 14.452 instructors:M. Beraja, I. Werning term:G (Fall) description:Advanced subject in macroeconomics that seeks to bring students to the research frontier. Topics vary from year to year, covering a wide spectrum of classical and recent research. Topics may include business cycles, optimal monetary and tax policy, monetary economics, banking, and financial constraints on investment and incomplete markets.  5-0-7 units
14.462 | Advanced Macroeconomics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-462-advanced-macroeconomics-ii-spring-2007 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.461 instructors:G. M. Angeletos, R. Townsend term:G (Spring) description:Topics vary from year to year. Often includes coordination failures; frictions in beliefs, such as rational inattention, higher-order uncertainty, certain forms of bounded rationality, heterogeneous beliefs, and ambiguity; implications for business cycles, asset markets, and policy; financial frictions and obstacles to trade; intermediation; liquidity; safe assets; global imbalances; financial crises; and speculation.  5-0-7 units
14.47 | Global Energy: Politics, Markets, and Policy |  | prereq:none instructors:V. Karplus term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 15.2191[J] . Preference to juniors, seniors, and Energy Minors. Same subject as 11.167[J] , 15.2191[J] , 17.399[J] 3-0-9 units. HASS-S
14.471 | Public Economics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-471-public-economics-i-fall-2012 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:14.04 instructors:J. Poterba, I. Werning term:G (Spring) description:Theory and evidence on government taxation policy. Topics include tax incidence; optimal tax theory; the effect of taxation on labor supply and savings; taxation and corporate behavior; and tax expenditure policy.  4-0-8 units
14.472 | Public Economics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-472-public-economics-ii-spring-2004 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:14.471 instructors:A. Finkelstein term:G (Fall) description:Focuses on government expenditures and policies designed to correct market failures and/or redistribute resources. Key topics include theoretical and empirical analysis of insurance market failures, the optimal design of social insurance programs, and the design of redistributive programs.  3-0-9 units
14.473 | Public Policy in Health Economics |  | prereq:14.122 instructors:Consult Department Headquarters term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Theory and evidence on the economics of the health care sector, with a particular emphasis on the economics of technological change and innovation.  4-0-8 units
14.475 | Environmental Economics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-475-environmental-economics-and-government-responses-to-market-failure-spring-2005 | level:Graduate features:Assignments: presentations (no examples) prereq:none instructors:C. Balboni term:G (Spring) description:Discusses theory and evidence on environmental externalities and regulatory, tax, and other government responses to problems of market failure. Topics include cost-benefit analysis; measurement of the benefits of non-market goods; evaluation of the impacts of regulation; and international environmental issues, including the economics of climate change and trade and the environment.  4-0-8 units
14.54 | International Trade | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-54-international-trade-fall-2016 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.01 and 14.02 instructors:A. Costinot term:U (Fall) description:Provides an introduction to theoretical and empirical topics in international trade. Offers a brief history of globalization. Introduces the theory of comparative advantage and discusses its implications for international specialization and wage inequality. Studies the determinants and consequences of trade policy, and analyzes the consequences of immigration and foreign direct investment.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.581 | International Economics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-581-international-economics-i-spring-2013 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: written (no examples) prereq:14.04 instructors:A. Costinot, D. Donaldson term:G (Fall) description:Covers a variety of topics, both theoretical and empirical, in international trade, international macroeconomics, and economic geography. Focuses on general equilibrium analysis in neoclassical economies. Considers why countries and regions trade, and what goods they trade; impediments to trade, and why some countries deliberately erect policy to impede; and implications of openness for growth. Also tackles normative issues, such as whether trade openness is beneficial, whether there are winners and losers from trade and, if so, how they can possibly be identified.  5-0-7 units
14.582 | International Economics II |  | prereq:14.06 instructors:D. Atkin, A. Costinot term:G (Spring) description:Building on topics covered in 14.581 , revisits a number of core questions in international trade, international macroeconomics, and economic geography in the presence of increasing returns, imperfect competition, and other distortions. Stresses their connection to both macro and micro (firm-level) data for questions related to trade policy, inequality, industrial policy, growth, and the location of economic activities. Focuses on both theoretical models, empirical findings, and the challenging task of putting those two together.  5-0-7 units
14.64 | Labor Economics and Public Policy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-64-labor-economics-and-public-policy-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate features:Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:14.30 or permission of instructor instructors:Consult J. Angrist term:Acad Year 2019-2020: Not offered Acad Year 2020-2021: U (Spring) description:Provides an introduction to the labor market, how it functions, and the important role it plays in people's lives. Topics include supply and demand, minimum wages, labor market effects of social insurance and welfare programs, the collective bargaining relationship, discrimination, human capital, and unemployment. Completion of or concurrent enrollment in 14.03 or 14.04 recommended.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.661 | Labor Economics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-661-labor-economics-i-fall-2017 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.04 and 14.32 instructors:D. Acemoglu, J. Angrist term:G (Fall) description:A systematic development of the theory of labor supply, labor demand, and human capital. Topics include wage and employment determination, turnover, search, immigration, unemployment, equalizing differences, and institutions in the labor market. Particular emphasis on the interaction between theoretical and empirical modeling.  5-0-7 units
14.662 | Labor Economics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-662-labor-economics-ii-spring-2015 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.04 and 14.32 instructors:D. Autor, S. Jager term:G (Spring) description:Theory and evidence on the determinants of earnings levels, inequality, intergenerational mobility, skill demands, and employment structure. Particular focus on the determinants of worker- and firm-level productivity; and the roles played by supply, demand, institutions, technology and trade in the evolving distribution of income.  5-0-7 units
14.70 | Medieval Economic History in Comparative Perspective |  | prereq:none instructors:A. McCants term:U (Spring) description:See description under subject 21H.134[J] . Same subject as 21H.134[J] 3-0-9 units. HASS-S; CI-H
14.73 | The Challenge of World Poverty | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-73-the-challenge-of-world-poverty-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Captions/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments: written (no examples), Exams and solutions prereq:none instructors:D. Atkin, E. Duflo, F. Schilbach term:U (Fall) description:Designed for students who are interested in the challenge posed by massive and persistent world poverty. Examines extreme poverty over time to see if it is no longer a threat, why some countries grow fast and others fall further behind, if growth or foreign aid help the poor, what we can do about corruption, if markets or NGOs should be left to deal with poverty, where to intervene, and how to deal with the disease burden and improve schools.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S; CI-H
14.740 | Foundations of Development Policy |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:D. Atkins, D. Donaldson term:G (Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Explores the foundations of policy making in developing countries, with the goal of spelling out various policy options and quantifying the trade-offs between them. Topics include education, health, fertility, adoption of technological innovations, financial markets (credit, savings, and insurance), markets for land and labor, political factors, and international considerations (aid, trade, and multinational firms). Some basic familiarity with probability and/or statistics is useful for this class.  Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments.  4-0-8 units
14.75 | Political Economy and Economic Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-75-political-economy-and-economic-development-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions) prereq:14.01 instructors:A. Banerjee, B. Olken term:U (Spring) description:Explores the relationship between political institutions and economic development, covering key theoretical issues as well as recent empirical evidence. Topics include corruption, voting, vote buying, the media, and war. Discusses not just what we know on these topics, but how we know it, covering how to craft a good empirical study or field experiment and how to discriminate between reliable and unreliable evidence.  Some basic familiarity with probability and/or statistics is useful for this class.  Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.750 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.750 | Political Economy and Economic Development |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:A. Banerjee, B. Olken term:G (Spring) description:Explores the relationship between political institutions and economic development, covering key theoretical issues as well as recent empirical evidence. Topics include corruption, voting, vote buying, the media, and war. Discusses not just what we know on these topics, but how we know it, covering how to craft a good empirical study or field experiment and how to discriminate between reliable and unreliable evidence. Some basic familiarity with probability and/or statistics is useful for this class.  Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.75 4-0-8 units
14.76 | Firms, Markets, Trade and Growth |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:D. Atkin, D. Donaldson term:U (Spring) description:Examines how industrial development and international trade have brought about rapid growth and large-scale reductions in poverty for some developing countries, while globalization has simply increased inequality and brought little growth for others. Also considers why, in yet other developing countries, firms remain small-scale and have not integrated with global supply chains. Draws on both theoretical models and empirical evidence to better understand the reasons for these very different experiences and implications for policy. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.760 4-0-8 units. HASS-S
14.760 | Firms, Markets, Trade and Growth |  | prereq:14.01 instructors:D. Atkin, D. Donaldson term:G (Spring) description:Examines how industrial development and international trade have brought about rapid growth and large-scale reductions in poverty for some developing countries, while globalization has simply increased inequality and brought little growth for others. Also considers why, in yet other developing countries, firms remain small-scale and have not integrated with global supply chains. Draws on both theoretical models and empirical evidence to better understand the reasons for these very different experiences and implications for policy. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 14.76 4-0-8 units
14.770 | Introduction to Collective Choice and Political Economy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-770-introduction-to-political-economy-fall-2017 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:none instructors:D. Acemoglu, B. Olken term:G (Fall) description:Broad introduction to political economy. Covers topics from social choice theory to political agency models, including theories of voter turnout and comparison of political institutions.  4-0-8 units
14.771 | Development Economics: Microeconomic Issues | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-771-development-economics-microeconomic-issues-and-policy-models-fall-2008 | level:Graduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:14.121 and 14.122 instructors:E. Duflo, B. Olken term:G (Fall) description:A rigorous introduction to core micro-economic issues in economic development, focusing on both key theoretical contributions and empirical applications to understand both why some countries are poor and on how markets function differently in poor economies. Topics include human capital (education and health); labor markets; credit markets; land markets; firms; and the role of the public sector.  5-0-7 units
14.772 | Development Economics: Macroeconomics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-772-development-economics-macroeconomics-spring-2013 | level:Graduate features:Video lectures, Lecture notes, Assignments: problem sets with solutions prereq:14.121 and 14.451 instructors:A. Banerjee, R. Townsend term:G (Spring) description:Dynamic models of growth and development emphasizing migration, modernization, risk and finance, and technological change; static and dynamic models of political economy; the dynamics of income distribution and institutional change; SME and larger firm structure in developing countries; development, transparency, and information systems; and functioning of financial markets and institutions in emerging markets, their design and regulation.  5-0-7 units
14.773 | Political Economy: Institutions and Development |  | prereq:14.121 and 14.451 instructors:D. Acemoglu, A. Banerjee term:G (Spring) description:Economists and policymakers increasingly realize the importance of political institutions in shaping economic performance, especially in the context of understanding economic development. Work on the determinants of economic policies and institutions is in its infancy, but is growing rapidly. Subject provides an introduction to this area. Topics covered: the economic role of institutions; the effects of social conflict and class conflict on economic development; political economic determinants of macro policies; political development; theories of income distribution and distributional conflict; the efficiency effects of distributional conflict; the causes and consequences of corruption; the role of colonial history; and others. Both theoretical and empirical approaches discussed. Subject can be taken either as part of the Development Economics or the Positive Political Economy fields.  5-0-7 units
14.781 | Political Economy I: Theories of the State and the Economy |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:M. Piore, S. Berger term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 17.100[J] . Same subject as 15.678[J] , 17.100[J] 3-0-9 units
14.THG | Graduate Thesis |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Program of research and writing of thesis; to be arranged by the student with supervising committee.  Units arranged
14.THU | Thesis |  | prereq:14.33 instructors:Staff term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Program of research and writing of thesis.  Units arranged
14.UR | Undergraduate Research |  | prereq:14.02 instructors:Consult D. Donaldson term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Participation in research with an individual faculty member or research group, independent research or study under the guidance of a faculty member. Admission by arrangement with individual faculty member.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
14.URG | Undergraduate Research |  | prereq:14.02 instructors:Consult D. Donaldson term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Participation in research with an individual faculty member or research group, independent research or study under the guidance of a faculty member. Admission by arrangement with individual faculty member.  Units arranged
