FINANCE121 | Undergraduate Finance Research and Discussion Seminar | http://FINANCE121.stanford.edu | instructors: description:This seminar is designed to provide some experience with research methods and topics in finance, and to assist undergraduates with career interests in financial research, whether academic or not, with preparation for those careers. The seminar meetings are weekly and discussion based, covering a range of issues and methods in financial economics. Students are expected to prepare a 30-minute research presentation once during the quarter. To be considered for enrollment in this course, please complete and submit this short application by December 3, 2018, 11:59pm PST. Students accepted to participate in this course will be notified on December 7, 2018 by 6:00pm. Link to application: https://goo.gl/forms/F1zadQcTaJB1chm83
FINANCE201 | Finance | http://FINANCE201.stanford.edu | instructors:Begenau, J. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (SI); Alvarez, K. (GP); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential in most of these decisions is the process of valuation, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, capital structure choice, payout policy, the use and valuation of derivative securities, and risk management. This course is targeted to those students who are new to finance and for those with little quantitative background.
FINANCE205 | Accelerated Managerial Finance | http://FINANCE205.stanford.edu | instructors:Berk, J. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential in most of these decisions is the process of valuation, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, capital structure choice, payout policy, the use and valuation of derivative securities, and risk management. This course is targeted to those students who are new to finance and for those with little quantitative background.No previous background in finance is required or expected for this course. Content will be comparable to F201, but the majority of course lecture material will be delivered online, with in-class sessions devoted to applications of key concepts. This "flipped classroom" version of the course is intended for self-motivated students with an interest in applications. Prerequisite material for the course will be posted online in the fall.
FINANCE207 | Corporations, Finance, and Governance in the Global Economy | http://FINANCE207.stanford.edu | instructors:Rauh, J. (PI); Seru, A. (PI); Rauh, J. (SI); Seru, A. (SI) description:As entrepreneurs, global leaders, and change agents tasked with developing transformative solutions of tomorrow, you will need certain skills and tools to interact with and navigate the complex and ever-changing financial landscape. This course focuses on the development of these skills and tools through the analysis of concise real-world financial situations around the globe. Topics include valuation of cash flows and control; the capital structure, payout policy and governance of both mature and entrepreneurial firms; restructuring and managing financial distress; the use of public markets to obtain liquidity and multiple share classes to retain control; financing and governance in venture capital and private equity; the rise of activism; and social responsibility and debates about the objectives of the firms of the present and future. This course is taught jointly by Professors Rauh and Seru.
FINANCE211 | Corporate Finance: Applications, Techniques, and Models | http://FINANCE211.stanford.edu | instructors:Mertens, T. (PI) description:This course will develop and apply the basic tools and models of corporate finance to real-world corporate decisions. This course is designed to be the second course in the standard finance sequence; that is, it is designed to be the natural follow-up to the Winter Managerial Finance course. This course will develop and extend standard tools and techniques of financial analysis, valuation, and model-building, and apply these methods to a wide range of cases. Case topics will include mergers and acquisitions, private equity, corporate governance, capital structure, agency conflicts, and corporate restructuring. For all of these applications, this course will emphasize the central importance of financial analysis, valuation, and modeling to guiding optimal decision making.
FINANCE229 | MSx: Finance | http://FINANCE229.stanford.edu | instructors:Zwiebel, J. (PI); Bray, S. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will consider many important financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential to most of these decisions are financial valuations, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, and capital structure choice.
FINANCE305 | Capital Markets and Institutional Investing | http://FINANCE305.stanford.edu | instructors:Lustig, H. (PI); Marshall, A. (SI) description:This course teaches recent advances in asset allocation and management. We emphasize the practical implementation of asset allocation and management tools in allocating assets, selecting asset managers and managing risk. The course focuses on alternative asset classes. Students apply these tools to real-time data in the computer lab. Topics covered include Asset Allocation; Delegated Asset Management and Manager Selection applied to Mutual Funds, Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds; Multi-factor models and Factor Investing. The class will be co-taught by Ana Marshall, the CIO of the Hewlett Foundation, and Hanno Lustig, who is on the Allocation Advisory Board of the NBIM.
FINANCE315 | Innovating for Financial Inclusion | http://FINANCE315.stanford.edu | instructors:Singleton, K. (PI); Blattner, L. (SI) description:This MBA elective explores innovative ways that start-ups are expanding the financial capacities of households and small businesses. What are the financial frictions that household/business facing impactful FinTech startups are addressing? What economic and behavioral forces are governing the successes of these startups? How is the choice of funding/business model impacting growth/scaling strategies? How is the competitive landscape evolving for traditional banks, established tech platforms, and FinTech startups? While the center of attention will be on disruption of financial services within the US legal and regulatory environments, we will frequently highlight recent innovations in Asia, Europe, and Latin America.
FINANCE319 | Private Equity Investing Seminar | http://FINANCE319.stanford.edu | instructors:Hurley, J. (PI); Grenadier, S. (SI); Bray, S. (GP) description:The Investments courses comprise an intensive overview of active fundamental investing in both the public and private equity markets. They are relevant for students who intend to pursue careers in private or public equity investing, as well as those who want to better understand investing from the perspective of an entrepreneur or individual. The vast majority of sessions will feature an outstanding investor guest lecturer. Previous guests included Andreas Halvorsen (Viking Global), Jim Coulter (TPG), Hadley Mullen (TSG Consumer Partners), Ryan Cotton (Bain Capital), Bill Oberndorf (SPO Partners) and Tim Bliss (Investment Group of Santa Barbara), and this year's lineup will be substantially similar. Established and taught for 50 years by the legendary Professor Jack McDonald, the Investments courses will be taught by John Hurley, founder of Cavalry Asset Management and Professor Steve Grenadier in Autumn 2019. Students are required to take F319 and F321 concurrently for 5 total units during the Autumn Quarter. F321 is a 2-unit compressed course that meets MWF from 3:00-5:50pm during Weeks 1 and 8 of the quarter. It addresses real-world applications of business analysis and valuation tools and teaches the skills necessary to evaluate investment opportunities. F319 is a 3-unit course that meets Tu/Th 1:30-2:50 PM throughout the quarter. Students delve into specific topics in private equity, venture capital, hedge funds, mutual funds and principal investing. Students can elect to take F319 graded or pass/fail. The Investments courses will make use of original case studies and teaching notes authored by the late Professor Jack McDonald and a team of course alumni from prior MBA classes. Case discussions and lecture discussions will be led by the teaching team and investors/principals who were involved. The Investments courses enable MBA students to learn a broad investing skillset and study the careers of outstanding investors.
FINANCE320 | Debt Markets | http://FINANCE320.stanford.edu | instructors:Duffie, D. (PI); Bray, S. (GP) description:This course is intended for those who plan careers that may involve debt financing for their businesses or other investments, or involve trading or investing in debt instruments and their derivatives, including money-market instruments, government bonds, repurchase agreements, interest-rate swaps, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), corporate bonds, structured credit products, and credit derivatives. We will emphasize the institutional features of the markets, including trading, pricing, and hedging. There is a special focus on distressed debt. Most lectures will start with a cold-called student presentation of an un-graded short homework calculation. There will also be a series of graded homework, a take-home mid-term, and about seven graded 'pop quizzes' of 10 minutes or less.
FINANCE321 | Investment Management and Entrepreneurial Finance | http://FINANCE321.stanford.edu | instructors:Hurley, J. (PI); Grenadier, S. (SI); Bray, S. (GP) description:The Investments courses comprise an intensive overview of active fundamental investing in both the public and private equity markets. They are relevant for students who intend to pursue careers in private or public equity investing, as well as those who want to better understand investing from the perspective of an entrepreneur or individual. The vast majority of sessions will feature an outstanding investor guest lecturer. Previous guests included Andreas Halvorsen (Viking Global), Jim Coulter (TPG), Hadley Mullen (TSG Consumer Partners), Ryan Cotton (Bain Capital), Bill Oberndorf (SPO Partners) and Tim Bliss (Investment Group of Santa Barbara), and this year's lineup will be substantially similar. Established and taught for 50 years by the legendary Professor Jack McDonald, the Investments courses will be taught by John Hurley, founder of Cavalry Asset Management and Professor Steve Grenadier in Autumn 2019. Students are required to take F319 and F321 concurrently for 5 total units during the Autumn Quarter. F321 is a 2-unit compressed course that meets MWF from 3:00-5:50pm during Weeks 1 and 8 of the quarter. It addresses real-world applications of business analysis and valuation tools and teaches the skills necessary to evaluate investment opportunities. F319 is a 3-unit course that meets Tu/Th 1:30-2:50 PM throughout the quarter. Students delve into specific topics in private equity, venture capital, hedge funds, mutual funds and principal investing. Students can elect to take F319 graded or pass/fail. The Investments courses will make use of original case studies and teaching notes authored by the late Professor Jack McDonald and a team of course alumni from prior MBA classes. Case discussions and lecture discussions will be led by the teaching team and investors/principals who were involved. The Investments courses enable MBA students to learn a broad investing skillset and study the careers of outstanding investors.
FINANCE341 | Modeling for Investment Management | http://FINANCE341.stanford.edu | instructors:Grenadier, S. (PI); Watson, J. (SI); Bray, S. (GP) description:This course will combine practical and up-to-date investment theory with modeling applications. Understanding beautiful theory, without the ability to apply it, is essentially useless. Conversely, creating state-of-the-art spreadsheets that apply incorrect theory is a waste of time. Here, we try to explicitly combine theory and application. The course will be divided into 6 modules, or topics. The first day of each module will be a lecture on an investment topic. Also provided is a team modeling project on the topic. The second day of each module will be a lab. The lab day will begin with modeling concepts (tips) designed to help you use Excel to implement the module's investment topic. After the tips are provided, the remainder of the lab day is devoted to teams working on their modeling project and allowing for Q&A. On the third day of each module will be presentations and wrap-up.
FINANCE345 | History of Financial Crises | http://FINANCE345.stanford.edu | instructors:Koudijs, P. (PI) description:Financial crises are as old as financial markets themselves. There are many similarities between historical events. The crisis of 2008, for example, is far from unique. More often than not financial crises are the result of bubbles in certain asset classes or can be linked to a specific form of financial innovation. This course gives an overview of the history of financial crises, asset price bubbles, banking collapses and debt crises. We start with the Tulip mania in 1636 and end with the recent Euro crisis. The purpose of the course is to understand the causes of past crises and to develop a conceptual framework that ties common elements together. We will discuss the lessons that we can draw for financial markets today.
FINANCE347 | Money and Banking | http://FINANCE347.stanford.edu | instructors:Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Freedman, S. (GP) description:This course is designed to help students understand the connections between money (the Federal Reserve), financial markets, and the macroeconomy. How are interest rates determined, and how does the Federal Reserve conduct monetary policy? How do Federal Reserve actions impact the US as well as other economies? What economic factors drive the yield curves in different bond markets? We will pay particular attention to the banking system, with an eye toward understanding the function, valuation, and regulation of banks. We touch on a number of topics including the role of the Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort during financial crises, unconventional monetary policy tools such as quantitative easing and forward guidance, cryptocurrency, and emerging market financial crises. We will often begin class with a discussion of current macro-financial market events in the context of our course coverage.
FINANCE350 | Corporate Financial Modeling | http://FINANCE350.stanford.edu | instructors:DeMarzo, P. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:This course will expose students to the fundamentals, best practices, and advanced techniques of corporate financial modeling. We begin with basic operating and integrated financial statement models, and ultimately develop financial models to analyze major corporate transactions, including venture capital funding, mergers and acquisitions, and leverage buyouts. We will integrate theories presented throughout the MBA core, particularly those from accounting and finance, and take a hands-on approach to understand how the theory is implemented in practice.The focus of the course will be on developing critical financial modeling skills, understanding best practices, and recognizing common pitfalls. Students will work on a series of cases and build models that can be used for earnings and pro-forma financial statement forecasts, valuation, the assessment of financing needs, merger analysis, and LBO evaluation.Students will also gain experience presenting financial models and critically assessing them. By the conclusion of the course, students will develop the skills to construct complex financial models and the logical frameworks to utilize them for various organizational applications.
FINANCE351 | Advanced Corporate Financial Modeling | http://FINANCE351.stanford.edu | instructors:DeMarzo, P. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:Students will engage in the development of corporate financial modeling cases and solutions. Students will also develop materials to aid others in building financial models, and serve as case leaders during lab workshops. Extensive background in financial modeling and experience with Excel is required.
FINANCE362 | Financial Trading Strategies | http://FINANCE362.stanford.edu | instructors:Mak, K. (PI) description:The purpose of this course is to familiarize students with the different types of trading strategies employed by various money management institutions. These financial trading strategies are used to manage the risk and return profiles of specific portfolios. Throughout the sessions, students will be challenged to understand and explore the application and implementation of these different strategies. Trading simulations employed on the Rotman Interactive Trader and Rotman Portfolio Manager (using real market data and computer generated data) will be used extensively in this course as a way to learn and test different strategies. All classes will be held in the new Real-time Analytics and Investment Lab (RAIL), located on the third floor of the Bass Building (B312). Students are expected to attend all sessions. Grades are based on in-class simulation results, class participation, and two written assignments.
FINANCE373 | Entrepreneurial Finance | http://FINANCE373.stanford.edu | instructors:Siegel, R. (PI) description:This is a course about the financial decision-making process largely from the point of view of the CEO of an entrepreneurial venture, ranging from very early to very late stages. The course takes a two-pronged approach: First, we develop tools and concepts of corporate finance related to modeling, valuation, control, and investment decisions within an entrepreneurial context. Second, we use cases with firms at different stages of their life cycles from initial angel or venture capital investments through exit decisions, in order to see the issues that arise when these principles are applied in practice. In some cases we show the viewpoint of the entrepreneur and in others the perspective of the investor. After all, as an entrepreneur, one cannot negotiate effectively without understanding an investor's motivations. Conversely, an investor cannot evaluate a potential investment opportunity without appreciating the entrepreneur's perspective and incentives. Finally, we explore new developments in entrepreneurial finance such as crowdfunding and early liquidity provisions.
FINANCE377 | China's Financial System | http://FINANCE377.stanford.edu | instructors:Duffie, D. (PI); Bray, S. (GP) description:This course is a survey of China's financial system, including its banking industry, monetary policy structure, and financial markets (bonds, derivatives, equities, foreign exchange, alternative asset management, and related markets). The goal is an integrated view of how capital, risk, and liquidity are intermediated within China and cross-border. Current trends (including liberalization of markets and financial stability) will be emphasized. Coverage will be through lectures, reading of research, including primary source documents and secondary (journalistic and analyst) commentary. There will be a range of subject-matter-expert speakers. Using our special High Immersion Classrooms at Stanford and at the Stanford Center at PKU, this course is able to draw live speakers in Beijing and to meet with some students at Beijing University or Tsinghua University. Students will participate actively in class discussion, make a 5-minute research presentation, and submit a 10-page term paper.
FINANCE385 | Angel and Venture Capital Financing for Entrepreneurs and Investors | http://FINANCE385.stanford.edu | instructors:Strebulaev, I. (PI); Jacobs, B. (SI); Alvarez, G. (GP) description:This course covers all the stages of funding for early stage high-growth companies, from seed funding to venture capital rounds to a successful exit. We will concentrate on how entrepreneurs and investors make and should make important decisions. Examples of issues that we will cover are: How can entrepreneurs raise funding successfully? What are typical mistakes entrepreneurs make in raising capital and negotiating with investors? How to choose your investor? How to pitch to an investor? How do angels and VCs generate and process their deal flow and select companies? How are VCs involved in business decisions such as recruiting talent and replacing CEOs? What are the important provisions of financial contracts between VCs and founders? How to value early-stage companies? The course is very applied and mostly case-based. We will discuss a lot of nitty-gritty details that is a must for founders and investors. Case protagonists, founders, angels, and VCs will be among guest speakers. No prior knowledge of the VC industry is needed.
FINANCE555 | Private Wealth Management and Personal Investing | http://FINANCE555.stanford.edu | instructors:Parker, G. (PI); Milligan, J. (SI); Lion-Transler, C. (GP) description:The Private Wealth Management and Personal Investing course will address issues that relate to the management of personal assets as opposed to institutional investing.  Many investment courses at the GSB emphasize large institutional portfolios but this course is about portfolio decisions for individuals. It will cover the origins and growth of private wealth management as an industry, investment planning, risk management, inter-generational transfers of wealth, choice of wealth advisors and philanthropy.  Special emphasis is on understanding how wealth managers may be evaluated, including potential conflicts of interest, and performance measurement. Classes will focus on case studies and various readings. Each class will include visits from professionals in the wealth management and personal investing business.  Active class participation and a group project are required.
FINANCE587 | Private Equity - An Overview of the Industry | http://FINANCE587.stanford.edu | instructors:Parker, G. (PI) description:This 2-unit elective at the GSB is an "Overview" of the private equity industry including its reason for being, its growth and the various strategies for success that private equity firms employ. The course looks at all aspects of private equity partnerships and private equity investing. The course may be of particular interest to five groups of students: (i) students who aspire to be employed in private equity as a career; (ii) students who plan to be employed by companies that are owned by private equity firms; (iii) students who may invest in private equity partnerships as a limited partner; (iv) students who find private equity to be an interesting part of the financial services industry, and (v) students who expect to participate in corporate business development or mergers and acquisitions. The course will meet for nine classes. Each class will have at least one senior partner from a private equity firm to comment on the activities of his firm. In years past, some of the true leaders of the industry have participated. One class will be a mock investment review committee presentation as a final project.
FINANCE620 | Financial Markets I | http://FINANCE620.stanford.edu | instructors:Hebert, B. (PI); Alvarez, G. (GP) description:This course is an introductory PhD level course in financial economics. We begin with individual choice under uncertainty, then move on to equilibrium models, the stochastic discount factor methodology, and no-arbitrage pricing. We will also address some empirical puzzles relating to asset markets, and explore the models that have been developed to try to explain them.
FINANCE621 | Financial Markets II | http://FINANCE621.stanford.edu | instructors:Koudijs, P. (PI) description:This course continues F620 and covers a number of main concepts in market microstructure. Among the topics that are covered are (i) Rational Expectations models and their foundations (ii) strategic trading models (iii) models of market and funding liquidity. In addition to the discussion of theoretic models time will be allotted to empirical applications.
FINANCE622 | Dynamic Asset Pricing Theory | http://FINANCE622.stanford.edu | instructors:Duffie, D. (PI) description:This course is an introduction to multiperiod models in finance, mainly pertaining to optimal portfolio choice and asset pricing. The course begins with discrete-time models for portfolio choice and security prices, and then moves to a continuous-time setting. The topics then covered include advanced derivative pricing models, models of the term structure of interest rates, the valuation of corporate securities, portfolio choice in continuous-time settings, and finally general-equilibrium and over-the-counter asset pricing models. Students should have had some previous exposure to general equilibrium theory and some basic courses in investments. Strong backgrounds in calculus, linear algebra, and probability theory are recommended. Problem assignments are frequent and, for most students, demanding. Prerequisite: F620 and MGTECON600 (or equivalent), or permission of instructor.
FINANCE624 | Corporate Finance Theory | http://FINANCE624.stanford.edu | instructors:Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:This course considers a wide range of topics in theoretical corporate finance (broadly interpreted). Topics include capital structure decisions, agency conflicts in the firm, dividend policy, security design, optimal financial contracting, the theory of the firm, the market for corporate control, and banking and financial intermediation, among others. The primary focus is on how asymmetric information, agency conflicts, strategic interactions, and incomplete contracting affect corporate financial decision-making. The course aims both to familiarize students with influential papers and current research, and to promote new research ideas in the area.
FINANCE625 | Empirical Asset Pricing | http://FINANCE625.stanford.edu | instructors:Lustig, H. (PI) description:This course is an introduction to empirical research in asset pricing. The focus of the course is on the interplay between financial economic theory, econometric method, and that analysis of financial market data. Topics include tests of asset pricing models, return predictability in time-series and cross-section, empirical studies of asset market imperfections, and studies of individual and professional investor behavior. Class discussions will draw on textbooks/monographs and original articles and working papers.
FINANCE627 | Venture Capital and Finance of Innovation | http://FINANCE627.stanford.edu | instructors:Strebulaev, I. (PI); Alvarez, G. (GP) description:In this course we will study the theory and empirics of venture capital (VC) and, more broadly, finance of innovation. We will start by reviewing the way the VC and related markets function and then will dive into such topics as VC contracting, valuation, and impact on innovation. We will review most important research studies published in the field over the past 20+ years and pay particular attention to recent research.
FINANCE630 | Empirical Corporate Finance | http://FINANCE630.stanford.edu | instructors:Seru, A. (PI) description:This course provides an introduction to empirical research in corporate finance, with an emphasis on the application of cross-sectional and panel data econometric techniques for causal inference. Topics include investment policy, entrepreneurship and innovation, financing decisions, firm ownership, corporate governance, managerial incentives, financial contracting, and the structure and internal organization of firms. The course assumes knowledge of econometrics at the level of MGTECON 603.
FINANCE633 | Advanced Empirical Corporate, Banking and Household Finance | http://FINANCE633.stanford.edu | instructors:Seru, A. (PI) description:This course discusses empirical aspects of major topics in corporate finance, household and consumer finance, housing, banking, financial regulation as well as political economy.  The course is designed for students doing their PhD in finance, economics and accounting. The class is very interactive.
FINANCE637 | Macroeconomics and Financial Markets | http://FINANCE637.stanford.edu | instructors:Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Piazzesi, M. (SI); Freedman, S. (GP) description:This PhD course will cover research topics at the boundary between macroeconomics and finance. Topics will include the study of macroeconomic models with financial frictions, the term structure of interest rates, conventional and unconventional monetary policy, sovereign debt crises, search frictions and segmentation in housing markets, (over)leveraging by households, heterogeneous expectations, excess volatility, financial bubbles and crises. Student presentations and course paper requirement. Designed for second year PhD students in economics or finance.
FINANCE691 | PhD Directed Reading | http://FINANCE691.stanford.edu | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Begenau, J. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Blattner, L. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Hebert, B. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Seru, A. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
FINANCE692 | PhD Dissertation Research | http://FINANCE692.stanford.edu | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Begenau, J. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Blattner, L. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Hebert, B. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Seru, A. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
FINANCE698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | http://FINANCE698.stanford.edu | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Begenau, J. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Blattner, L. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Hebert, B. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Seru, A. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
FINANCE699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | http://FINANCE699.stanford.edu | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Begenau, J. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Blattner, L. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Hebert, B. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Seru, A. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
FINANCE802 | TGR Dissertation | http://FINANCE802.stanford.edu | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Begenau, J. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Blattner, L. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Hebert, B. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Seru, A. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:
