GSBGEN208 | Ethics in Management | http://GSBGEN208.stanford.edu | instructors:Malhotra, N. (PI); McLennan, S. (SI); Kocharyan, N. (GP) description:With leadership comes responsibility. This course explores the numerous ethical duties faced by managers and organizations. It combines analytical frameworks with the latest findings on human behavior to inform a wide range of ethical decisions and strategies. Readings include case studies, insights from experimental psychology and economics, and excerpts from or about major works of moral philosophy. Through online and in-class exercises, discussions, and personal reflection, you will reveal and assess your ethical intuitions, compare them with more explicit modes of ethical thought, and learn how to use ethics in business settings. A diverse set of ethical viewpoints will be considered with an emphasis on not only their implications for ethical behavior but also on the social and cognitive pitfalls that undermine the ability of business leaders to fulfill their ethical duties.
GSBGEN305 | Investing for Good | http://GSBGEN305.stanford.edu | instructors:Ewald, C. (PI); Patel, H. (SI) description:Investing for Good will introduce students to the entire spectrum of purposeful, values-driven, and impact investing. We examine the field from the perspective of an institutional investor (i.e. fund manager, investment advisor, endowment manager, head of a family office, etc). Our goal is to have students emerge with a practical and analytical framework for: 1. evaluating impact and mission-aligned investments across multiple asset classes and sectors; 2. constructing a portfolio using impact as a lens; 3. designing an impact investment company; and 4. understanding the many practical and theoretical challenges confronting this exciting emerging field.We start by exploring some fundamental questions: what is a purposeful or impact investment; can impact investments be defined along a spectrum between conventional investing and philanthropy; whose money is it; what are the constraints and opportunities; how do we (re)define return and/or performance. We briefly analyze impact investing in the context of modern portfolio theory. We then develop a framework for portfolio construction and evaluation across four criteria: risk, return, liquidity, and impact. Through a combination of class dialogues, role plays, and case discussions, we will explore a wide variety of asset classes, impact themes, and investment challenges. A series of team-based investment committee simulations will comprise a significant portion of the course and will provide a significant experiential learning experience.Previous experience in finance, investing, social enterprise, entrepreneurship, or philanthropy is not required, but both helpful and welcomed. While first year students are encouraged to enroll, students who have limited familiarity with the basics of investing and corporate finance are strongly encouraged to purchase David Swensen's "Pioneering Portfolio Management" and cover the recommended chapters in advance of the course. It's is also important to note that this class will require financial modeling and detailed investment analysis.Many of the issues we'll be tackling have no unambiguous answers. Lively discussion and debate will be necessary and expected.
GSBGEN306 | Real Estate Investment | http://GSBGEN306.stanford.edu | instructors:Abbey, D. (PI); Mahowald, C. (SI) description:The major objective of this course is to provide the student with an understanding of the fundamentals of real estate investment. The course covers land economics, market analysis, finance, taxation, investment analysis, investment vehicles, real estate risk, development and urban design. Major land uses are discussed including apartments, retail, office, and industrial. The course is designed for students with limited or no background in real estate.
GSBGEN310 | The Impact of AI on Productivity and Personal Performance | http://GSBGEN310.stanford.edu | instructors:Shaw, K. (PI) description:Much has been written about how jobs in firms are likely to change as a result of AI.  The first objective of this course is to invite guest speakers from many sectors to address how they think their own jobs or similar jobs are likely to change as AI enters the products they produce (like Netflix products) and the jobs they do.  For example, the speakers could be: an engineer in a software firm; a partner in a law firm; a headquarters employee in a big retail firm; or the founder of a new business.  The second objective is to bring data to bear on the topic.  We ask first, is AI a new technological revolution ¿ like the past revolutions that introduced the steam engine or electrification ¿ that will produce a sustained increase in GDP and productivity?  We ask next, when AI or robotics have been introduced in the past twenty years, have these innovations been translated into improvements in individuals¿ productivity and then higher wages?  Are the AI innovations in the future likely to have a similar impact?  Finally, for you as a student, the goals of this course are to give you a foundation for thinking about the broad consequences of the increasing use of AI, but also to think about how your work life is likely to be different from those who are working today.
GSBGEN312 | I'm Just a Bill | http://GSBGEN312.stanford.edu | instructors:Hennessey, K. (PI) description:This is a class on how public policy gets made at the highest levels of the federal government. In the first part of the quarter, lectures and discussions lead in to classrom simulations, in which students role-play as advisors to a U.S. president. You will learn how to analyze policy problems and design solutions, taking into account the multi-dimensional aspects of making federal policy and the many constraints upon those decisions.The second part of the class is a multi-week role-playing legislative simulation. Students will role-play as Members of the House of Representatives and Senate, or as senior advisors to a president. You will participate in legislative debate, voting, offering amendments, and extensive policy and legislative negotiation, with the goal of enacting a new law.
GSBGEN315 | Strategic Communication | http://GSBGEN315.stanford.edu | instructors:Alper, B. (PI); Schramm, J. (PI); Alper, B. (SI); Kluger, A. (SI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:Business leaders have marketing strategies, expansion strategies, finance strategies, even exit strategies. Successful leaders, however, also have communication strategies. This course will explore how individuals and organizations can develop and execute effective communication strategies for a variety of business settings.This course introduces the essentials of communication strategy and persuasion: audience analysis, communicator credibility, message construction and delivery. Deliverables will include written documents and oral presentations and you will present both individually and in a team. You will receive feedback to improve your communication effectiveness. In the final team presentation, your challenge is to craft an oral presentation that will persuade your audience to accept your strategic recommendations. By doing this, you will see why ideas, data and advocacy are combined for a professional, persuasive presentation. This practical course helps students develop confidence in their speaking and writing through weekly presentations and assignments, lectures and discussions, guest speakers, simulated activities, and videotaped feedback. An important new feature of this course is that a team of external communications coaches work in concert with the professor to ensure that students get rigorous and individualized coaching and feedback.In this course you will learn to:- Create communication strategies at an individual and organizational level- Develop clearly organized and effective presentations and documents- Diagnose and expand your personal writing and oral delivery style - Adapt your delivery style to different material and audiences - Enhance oral delivery through effective visual aidsStudents at all levels of comfort and expertise with public speaking and business writing will benefit from this course. Waitlists have been long for this course, and you're encouraged to keep that in mind as you make your course selections. Waitlisted students are encouraged to attend the first two classes.
GSBGEN317 | Reputation Management: Strategies for Successful Communicators | http://GSBGEN317.stanford.edu | instructors:Kluger, A. (PI) description:Successful leaders have to conceive, author, rebuild, pivot, differentiate, and finally maintain a personal reputation to make a lasting, recognizable and powerful identity. Reputation Management will explore how you can effectively communicate to create, adapt and maintain your personal reputation. Your reputation remains fluid as you navigate your career decisions and interact with different professionals along your journey. The course is designed along three interlocking elements: reputation management literature, relevant case studies, and curated guest speakers. Students will learn the fundamentals of strategic corporate communication and the risk of not managing reputation effectively. These frameworks will be extended with specific case studies to illustrate where individuals, groups, and firms have faced the challenge of managing reputation effectively. We will focus on both traditional and virtual components of communication including the relevancy of online reputation management. Finally we will invite well-known leaders from a range of industries who have built and sustained their reputations, through effective communication. Each leader has had to manage their reputations in the public eye, and alongside their peers, supervisors, and employees. Guests will be invited to discuss their conscious and unplanned strategies of how to successfully communicate the kind of person, leader, innovator, or public figure they strive to be. Students will benefit from a rich blend of frameworks, cases, and speakers enabling them to successfully enter the work force and create their own, personal reputations. Students will create a case study drawn from their own experience (or personal network), of a reputation dilemma. A final assignment requires students to research their own reputation history by projecting what they think their reputation is, creating their own survey for friends, colleagues and employers to take, conduct three interviews about their personal reputation with three individuals who have worked closely with them, and then synthesize all this feedback into a cohesive paper and short video that reflects their authentic work and personal reputation.  Throughout the course students will post at least one blog drawn from class concepts and respond to posts by peers in the class.
GSBGEN319 | Strategic Philanthropy and Impact Investing | http://GSBGEN319.stanford.edu | instructors:Brest, P. (PI); Wolfson, M. (SI) description:The course will be structured around the perspective of a foundation or a high net worth individual who has decided to devote substantial resources to philanthropy and wishes to decide which philanthropic goals to pursue and how best to achieve them.  Although there are no formal prerequisites for the course, we will assume that students have experience working at a foundation, nonprofit organization, impact investing fund, or similar organization, or have taken an introductory course in strategic philanthropy such as GSBGEN 381. (With the exception of several classes on strategy and evaluation, there is no substantial overlap with Paul Brest's course, Problem Solving for Social Change (GSBGEN 367) , which has a different focus from this one.)
GSBGEN333 | Technology Licensing | http://GSBGEN333.stanford.edu | instructors:Abramson, R. (PI) description:Licensing of technology and its corresponding intellectual property is big business, and integral to the business plans and competitive strategies of start-ups and Fortune 500 companies alike. Although the annual dollar magnitude of licenses of patents and other technology-related IP is difficult to estimate due to the proprietary nature of much of the data, academic studies peg the U.S. IP licensing market at ~$66B, and the global market at ~$180B. The development and evolution of technology standards and interoperability requirements, regulatory overlays that require technologies outside a company's core competencies, the proliferation and widespread enforcement of patents, the rapid expansion of IP-based business models, and the staggering expense and uncertain benefits of internal R&D, among other things, have combined to weigh heavily on the buy side of the make/buy scale, and to amplify the importance of inbound and outbound licensing arrangements for both start-up and Fortune 500 companies. Because licenses are complex legal agreements with important legal consequences, it is tempting for business executives to delegate to lawyers the negotiation of the non-economic terms of their companies' technology license agreements. The problem with such an approach, however, is that so-called "non-economic" terms can have significant and occasionally mortal economic and business consequences. While no business person should grapple with such issues in the context of a large or complex license agreement without legal counsel, it is critical that the business person understand the consequences, negotiating levers and trade-offs themselves, for at their core, the decisions to be made on these issues are business decisions, not legal ones. This course is organized around two hypothetical companies seeking to negotiate a technology license agreement. Both parties operate under a common set of "public" facts, and each responds as well to "private" facts relevant to various business priorities and issues. Students are divided into three-person teams, each representing one or the other of the hypothetical companies, and collaborate over multiple sessions to develop a strategic business approach and then to negotiate a licensing agreement. Lectures are focused on the business, and to a lesser extent, legal issues arising in complex licensing arrangements, and are designed to give students the context and perspective they need to participate effectively in licensing strategy development and negotiation. By immersing teams of business students in a multi-session licensing negotiation, it is the objective of this course to enable them to better understand and think critically about the principal issues that arise in the conceptualization and negotiation of technology license agreements.
GSBGEN334 | Family Business | http://GSBGEN334.stanford.edu | instructors:Linbeck, L. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:Believe it or not, the "Silicon Valley model" has little or nothing to do with most businesses. Most businesses are not started by MBAs; most startups are not funded by VCs; most employees don't work for tech firms; and most businesses don't sell out to other businesses or go public. Rather, the vast majority of businesses world-wide are started, funded, and owned by families, and these firms create most of the employment in the global economy. Despite the prominence of family firms, teaching and research have traditionally focused on analyzing the widely-held or Silicon Valley model of the firm. This course explores the challenges and opportunities faced by family businesses. It is taught by Leo Linbeck III, Lecturer since 2005 at the GSB and President and CEO of Aquinas Companies, LLC. This course is an outlier in a world obsessed with tech startups and venture capital; it is a "Minority Report" from the heart of Silicon Valley. The course is intended for four main audiences: (1) Students whose family owns a business. (2) Students who are considering working for a family firm. (3) Students who are interested in acquiring or consulting with a private firm either directly (search funds, management consultants, etc) or indirectly (private equity, etc). (4) Students who are sick of only learning about cool, sexy startups and the geniuses who get rich from them. The course uses a combination of case studies, guest speakers, lectures, movies, and student presentations to explore the central ideas of the course, which are likely to appear irrelevant to everyone (save the instructor).
GSBGEN336 | Energy Markets and Policy | http://GSBGEN336.stanford.edu | instructors:Wolak, F. (PI); Thurber, M. (SI) description:This is a course on how energy and environmental markets work, and the regulatorymechanisms that have been and can be used to achieve desired policy goals. The courseuses a electricity market game as a central teaching tool. In the game, students play the roleof electricity generators and retailers in order to gain an understanding of how market rules(including environmental regulations and renewable energy mandates) affect the businessstrategy of market participants¿and in turn economic and environmental outcomes.The goal of the course is to provide students with both theoretical and hands-onunderstanding of important energy and environmental market concepts that are critical tomarket functioning but not always widely appreciated. Concepts covered include: 1)regulated price-setting versus price-setting through market mechanisms, 2) BTU arbitragein input energy choices, 3) uniform price vs. pay-as-bid auctions, 4) the ability andincentive to exercise unilateral market power, 5) unilateral versus cooordinated exercise ofmarket power, 6) transmission congestion, 7) forward contracts and their effect on marketfunctioning, 8) dynamic pricing of electricity and active involvement of final demand, 9)the nature of energy reserves, 10) carbon pricing mechanisms including taxes and cap-andtradesystems, 11) renewable portfolio standards and other renewable energy incentives,12) determination of levelized cost of energy (LCOE) and its impact on new capacityinvestment decisions, and 13) interactions between environmental mechanisms andregulations. We will also discuss the key features of the markets for major sources ofenergy such as oil, natural gas, coal, nuclear, solar, wind, and biomass.The course is useful background for private sector roles in energy production,research, management, trading, investment, and government and regulatory affairs;government positions in policymaking and regulation; research and policy functions inacademia, think tanks, or consultancies; and non-profit advocacy roles related to energy and the environment.
GSBGEN339 | Negotiation Dynamics in Sports, Entertainment and Media | http://GSBGEN339.stanford.edu | instructors:Foster, G. (PI); Hinkie, S. (SI); Marathe, P. (SI) description:Negotiation is a central part of business in the worlds of sports and entertainment. This course will examine negotiation dynamics and key takeaways for general management from multiple different settings where negotiations had an important role--these will include preparing for a negotiation, the negotiation process itself, contractual outcomes of negotiation and their execution and in some cases litigation. The settings will include negotiations over player and actor contracts, negotiations between leagues and players associations, negotiations between investors and movie companies, and negotiations between content providers (both in sports and entertainment) and distribution partners (such as cable stations, international media companies, and online companies such as Netflix). Each of the six sessions is planned to include at least one and in some cases two guests that have had extensive experience in negotiations.
GSBGEN345 | Disruptions in Education | http://GSBGEN345.stanford.edu | instructors:Urstein, R. (PI) description:This course explores the contemporary higher education industry, focusing especially on the places where disruptions of all kinds present significant opportunities and challenges for entrepreneurs, investors, and the businesses that serve this huge global market, as well as for faculty, students, and higher education institutions and leaders. Using a variety of readings and case studies to better understand recent disruptions and the unbundling occurring across the postsecondary landscape, from outside and inside the academy, both for-profit and non-profit, the course will examine technology in teaching and learning; the future of the degree and alternatives to the traditional credential; accreditation; competency based education; student debt and education financing models; investing in the education space; workforce, skills development, and lifelong learning; and tertiary products and platforms that serve the student services market.  Guests will include higher education leaders and practitioners, as well as investors, entrepreneurs, and social entrepreneurs.
GSBGEN348 | The Economics of Higher Education | http://GSBGEN348.stanford.edu | instructors:Bettinger, E. (PI) description:(Same as EDUC 347) Topics: the worth of college and graduate degrees, and the utilization of highly educated graduates; faculty labor markets, careers, and workload; costs and pricing; discounting, merit aid, and access to higher education; sponsored research; academic medical centers; and technology and productivity. Emphasis is on theoretical frameworks, policy matters, and the concept of higher education as a public good. Stratification by gender, race, and social class.
GSBGEN352 | Winning Writing | http://GSBGEN352.stanford.edu | instructors:Kramon, G. (PI); Ponce, S. (GP) description:This twice-a-week full-quarter workshop will offer techniques and practical in-class exercises for writing better -- better memos, emails, feedback for colleagues, news releases, responses to questions from the media and from interviewers, and opinion pieces. Glenn Kramon, an editor who has helped New York Times reporters win 10 Pulitzer Prizes, will teach the course along with accomplished journalists with expertise in powerful, persuasive writing for business. They will provide not only helpful tips but constructive feedback on students' work. They will also share thoughts on how best to work with the news media.
GSBGEN356 | Dynamics of the Global Wine Industry | http://GSBGEN356.stanford.edu | instructors:Rapp, A. (PI) description:This course will examine the world of wine with a fresh and contemporary lens. It will explore the market dynamics of this fascinating global industry. The goal of the course is to provide insight into the branding, marketing, and distribution dynamics that shape what consumers can buy and consume with a focus on the strategies of some of the world's leading wine brands. Attention will also be paid to the legal, regulatory, and market dynamics that define the U.S. wine industry as well as to issues of contested authenticity in the world of wine.
GSBGEN360 | Sports Business Management | http://GSBGEN360.stanford.edu | instructors:Foster, G. (PI); Hinkie, S. (SI); Kaval, D. (SI) description:This course will examine the diverse management challenges facing the sports industry. The course will cover issues at the league level, the team level, the athlete/agent level, and the college level. The diverse constituencies with interests in sports issues (athletes, fans, media companies, advertisers, and legislators to name a few) will be discussed. Sports issues at a global level (the IOC) and both U.S. and outside U.S. will be covered. There will be coverage of evolving business ventures related to the sports industry (such as venture backed sports companies and sports networks). A key focus is on how the sports industry is similar to and different from other industries. Key concepts underlying the course are: value creation/value sharing; revenue ecosystem; virtuous circles and vicious circles; disruptive technologies; growth facilitators and growth inhibitors; leveragable assets/inherited liabilities; and entrepreneurship/new product innovations. Over 80% of the sessions typically will include a guest co-lecturer from the sporting industry.
GSBGEN363 | Fiscal Policy | http://GSBGEN363.stanford.edu | instructors:Hennessey, K. (PI) description:One of every five dollars in the American economy will be spent by the federal government this year. This course will examine how federal spending, taxes, deficits and debt affect the U.S. economy and global financial markets, and how the economy affects the federal budget. We will look inside the federal budget to understand entitlement spending, what causes it to grow so fast, how it could be reformed, and why that's so hard to do. We'll understand where the money goes -- how much goes to infrastructure, education, housing, health care, energy and the environment, parks, scientific research, national defense, and other needs. We'll look at the stimulus vs. austerity debate, both within the U.S. and between the U.S. and Europe. We'll look beyond partisan battle lines and explore various fiscal philosophies that sometimes split the political parties. We'll cover the federal budget process from developing the President's budget to enacting individual spending and tax bills, and discuss process reforms including spending and deficit reduction targets, a balanced budget amendment, and line item veto. We'll cover the major players in the budget debate and understand where the big and small budget decisions are made. We'll look at federal taxation, where the money comes from, how it affects the economy, and how it might be restructured. We'll examine the recommendations of the President's budget commission and see if we can predict what will become of its recommendations. And we'll see if we, as a class, can solve our nation's fiscal problems as Washington has so far been unable to do.
GSBGEN367 | Problem Solving for Social Change | http://GSBGEN367.stanford.edu | instructors:Brest, P. (PI) description:Stanford graduates will play important roles in solving many of today's and tomorrow's major societal problems -- such as improving educational and health outcomes, conserving energy, and reducing global poverty -- which call for actions by nonprofit, business, and hybrid organizations as well as governments. This course teaches skills and bodies of knowledge relevant to these roles through problems and case studies drawn from nonprofit organizations, for-profit social enterprises, and governments. Topics include designing, implementing, scaling, and evaluating social strategies; systems thinking; decision making under risk; psychological biases that adversely affect people's decisions; methods for influencing individuals' and organizations' behavior, ranging from incentives and penalties to "nudges;" human-centered design; corporate social responsibility; and pay-for-success programs. We will apply these concepts and tools to address an actual social problem facing Stanford University.
GSBGEN368 | Managing Difficult Conversations | http://GSBGEN368.stanford.edu | instructors:Meehan, B. (PI); Prober, C. (SI); Freedman, S. (GP) description:This elective 3- unit course is offered to JD law students and other selected graduate students, and to MBA students who aspire to improve their ability to deal effectively with difficult interpersonal situations. The course will be taught by William F. Meehan III, the Lafayette Partners Lecturer in Strategic Management, Stanford Graduate School of Business and Charles G. Prober, M.D., Professor of Pediatrics, Microbiology & Immunology and Senior Associate Vice Provost for Health Education, Stanford School of Medicine. The course, which will be case-based, will involve frequent student-to-student and student-to-instructor role-playing in authentic medical interactions and difficult interpersonal situations. Topic-specific experts often will be present to participate as class guests. Relevant principles of professionalism, leadership, and psychology underlie the course pedagogy. There will be ten classes held on Wednesdays beginning January 8th and concluding on March 11th. Each class will begin promptly at 12:30 and end shortly before 3 pm. Students will be expected to attend all classes unless excused in advance. Class preparation will include reading of assigned cases; analysis of the cases and recommendations as to how to confront specific difficult conversations (consistent with assigned study questions); and reading of assigned background material. It is important that all students participate actively in classroom discussions. For GSB students, 50% of the final grade will depend on classroom performance; the remainder will be based on a final written assignment of 3-5 pages. GSB students will be graded on a Pass/Fail basis. The course will be ungraded for medical students, residents and fellows. All students will be expected to complete the written assignment. Class size will be limited to 40 students per the following: (1) a maximum of 20 MBA students and (2) a maximum of 20 non-GHB graduate students.
GSBGEN370 | Power of You: Women in Leadership | http://GSBGEN370.stanford.edu | instructors:Arrillaga, L. (PI) description:All leaders face a host of challenges, but female leaders encounter an additional set of obstacles and considerations-institutional, economic, cultural-that their male counterparts most likely never will. These issues are often exacerbated for women from underrepresented groups. GG370 Power of You: Women and Leadership will prepare students to successfully identify and respond to these challenges, and, ideally, transform them into opportunities for growth and advancement. The course will establish a leadership paradigm that inspires and equips students to create a leadership legacy through empowering others, particularly those who traditionally have not had access to opportunities, networks and/or mentorship. In class and in written weekly reflections, students will deeply explore issues including, but not limited to: the likeability paradox; sexism in the workplace; diversity, inclusivity, and opportunity; intersectional identities; managing voice and reputation; leadership styles; mentorship and sponsorship; and creating social value. Students will create a legacy leadership action plan that will define/refine professional purpose, intentions and dreams/objectives; actions and tactics necessary to achieve student¿s aspirations; risks or barriers that may impede student success; specific indicators of progress towards student¿s goals; and the social change students will work to create. In class, at brown bag lunches, at instructor-hosted on-campus lunches and dinners, and at small lunches and dinners (at the instructor¿s home), students will engage directly with industry leaders including Arianna Huffington (Thrive Global), Meg Whitman (Quibi), Dr. Priscilla Chan (Chan Zuckerberg Initiative), Mary Barra and Alicia Boler-Davis (General Motors), Judy Smith (Smith & Company), Sam Altman (Y-Combinator) and Reid Hoffman (Greylock Ventures and LinkedIn), among others.
GSBGEN377 | Diverse Leadership as an Imperative for Impact | http://GSBGEN377.stanford.edu | instructors:Colby, S. (PI) description:Our society implicitly prizes a particular approach to leadership - but today's cross-sectoral, impact-oriented leader cannot afford to be restricted to a single approach. If we aspire to address challenges across social, economic, and political arenas, with highly charged moral implications and multiple stakeholders, we have an imperative to use all available tools by discovering, celebrating, and advancing diversity in leadership.In this course, we will: (1) study a range of effective leadership approaches; (2) develop broad, transportable skills and frameworks required to lead in any complex setting - business, public sector, nonprofit sector; (3) delve into leadership tradeoffs and tensions; (4) explore and understand our own values and tacit and explicit decision-making criteria; and (5) recognize barriers to diversity and tactics to address them.  Guiding questions will include: How does the context shape the solution set? What does inspired and inspiring leadership look like? How do race/gender/other identities enter into the equation? How do I develop my own brand of leadership? We will examine contemporary leaders and controversies in education and elsewhere, draw upon timeless historical thinkers, enjoy the wisdom of guest speakers, and work intensively in small groups to highlight challenges, opportunities, and tradeoffs. By exploring a range of approaches and situations, we will strive for deeper understanding of ourselves and of the context to become a more capable, empathetic and effective leaders.
GSBGEN381 | Individual Philanthropy: Giving Models, Purpose & Practicum | http://GSBGEN381.stanford.edu | instructors:Arrillaga, L. (PI); Williams, J. (GP) description:A philanthropist is anyone who gives anything- time, expertise, networks, credibility, dollars, experience- in any amount to create a better world. Philanthropy is resource, background, age, profession, and industry agnostic, and "Individual Philanthropy: Giving Models, Purpose & Practicum" will amplify your ability to make your giving, volunteering, service and leadership matter more. You have extraordinary potential to create social change, and this course will empower you with the perspective, experience and inspiration to actualize that potential both immediately and over your lifetime. You will be exposed to a diverse array of giving models and approaches, and be given structured space to weigh and appraise your individual philanthropic point of view and approach. Through deep introspection, you will define and/or refine your social change purpose and create a theory of change that maps how you will transform your values, beliefs and resources (including intellectual, human, network, experiential and financial capital) into measurable social value. Class activities will include debates and simulations such as discussing the benefits and challenges of diverse giving models, creating personal giving strategies, giving fundraising pitches and assessing actual foundation grant proposals. Each student will select and complete due diligence on a local nonprofit and create a formal grant proposal. Students will peer-review grant proposals, participate in a multi-stage grantmaking process and allocate $20,000 of grants funded by the Learning by Giving Foundation and Andreessen Philanthropies. Students will also have the unique opportunity to directly connect and engage with globally renowned philanthropic leaders, including Darren Walker (Ford Foundation), Laura Muñoz Arnold (Arnold Ventures), Justin Steele (Google.org), Crystal Hayling (Libra Foundation) and Holden Karnofsky (Open Philanthropy Project), among others.
GSBGEN383 | Practical Policy and Politics | http://GSBGEN383.stanford.edu | instructors:Hennessey, K. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:This is a skills / toolbox class, designed for beginners. It is a practical course about policy-making in the U.S. federal government. It will cover three broad subject areas: (1) an assortment of current policy topics; (2) governing processes ¿ how policy gets made in an environment constrained by politics and elections; and (3) practical skills business leaders may need in interacting with government and with policymakers. This class is for beginners and assumes you have no prior experience or knowledge of policy or politics.
GSBGEN390 | Individual Research | http://GSBGEN390.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Abbey, D. (PI); Abrahams, M. (PI); Admati, A. (PI); Akbarpour, M. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Andrews, C. (PI); Antoni, F. (PI); Arrillaga, L. (PI); Athey, S. (PI); Atwell, J. (PI); Bannick, M. (PI); Barnett, W. (PI); Barth, M. (PI); Batista, E. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Begenau, J. (PI); Beiker, S. (PI); Bendor, J. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Berg, J. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Bettinger, E. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Blattner, L. (PI); Bowman, K. (PI); Brady, D. (PI); Brady, S. (PI); Brest, P. (PI); Broockman, D. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Burgelman, R. (PI); Burgoyne, A. (PI); Callander, S. (PI); Carmel-Hurwitz, D. (PI); Carroll, G. (PI); Casey, K. (PI); Chess, R. (PI); Chin, L. (PI); Choi, J. (PI); Ciesinski, S. (PI); Clement, J. (PI); Corney, A. (PI); Coulson, S. (PI); Cronkite, J. (PI); Davis, S. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Demarest, D. (PI); Dexter, G. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Dobbs, C. (PI); Dodson, D. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Ellis, J. (PI); Ewald, C. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Flynn, F. (PI); Foarta, D. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Francis, P. (PI); Francisco, R. (PI); Galen, D. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Gipper, B. (PI); Glickman, M. (PI); Goldberg, A. (PI); Greer, L. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Grousbeck, H. (PI); Gruenfeld, D. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Guttentag, B. (PI); Halevy, N. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Heath, C. (PI); Hebert, B. (PI); Hennessey, K. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Hurley, J. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jha, S. (PI); Johnson, S. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Joss, R. (PI); Kasznik, E. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Keelan, H. (PI); Kelly, P. (PI); Kessler, D. (PI); Kim, J. (PI); Klein, D. (PI); Kluger, A. (PI); Kosinski, M. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Kramer, R. (PI); Kramon, G. (PI); Krehbiel, K. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Krubert, C. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Lee, G. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Leslie, M. (PI); Lester, R. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Levin, J. (PI); Linbeck, L. (PI); Lisbonne, B. (PI); Lowery, B. (PI); Lustig, H. (PI); Malhotra, N. (PI); Mandelbaum, F. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); Martin, A. (PI); Martin, G. (PI); Martin, I. (PI); McCanna, C. (PI); McLennan, S. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Meehan, B. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Monin, B. (PI); Monzon, L. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Neale, M. (PI); O'Reilly, C. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Parker, G. (PI); Peterson, J. (PI); Pfeffer, J. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Raimondi, A. (PI); Ranganathan, A. (PI); Rao, H. (PI); Rapp, A. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Rice, C. (PI); Robles Garcia, C. (PI); Rohan, D. (PI); Rosenthal, A. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Saloner, G. (PI); Sannikov, Y. (PI); Schramm, J. (PI); Schulman, K. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Seru, A. (PI); Sharabi Levine, Y. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Shotts, K. (PI); Siegel, R. (PI); Siegelman, R. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Smith, K. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sorensen, J. (PI); Soule, S. (PI); Spiess, J. (PI); Sterling, A. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Tully, S. (PI); Urstein, R. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Weaver, G. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Weintraub, G. (PI); Wendell, P. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI); Wilson, R. (PI); Wood, D. (PI); Wurster, T. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI); Ziebelman, P. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:Need approval from sponsoring faculty member and GSB Registrar.
GSBGEN503 | The Business of Healthcare | http://GSBGEN503.stanford.edu | instructors:Krubert, C. (PI) description:Healthcare spending is now nearly 18% of the entire GDP of the U.S. economy. The S&P healthcare sector has been one of the best producing segments of the market for the last five years, and growth of healthcare expenditures continue to escalate at a rapid pace. This has triggered an abundance of opportunities for those interested in a career in healthcare management, investing, or entrepreneurialism. The Business of Healthcare-2017-18 will present the current market framework from the eyes of a clinician and with the perspective of the consumer-patient, but with the experience of a successful business builder and investor. Course will begin with the discussion of the channels of distribution of healthcare delivery, from providers, to practitioners, to consumer-facing ¿healthcare lite¿ sectors of the market. Impact of the regulatory environment, with specific focus on the Affordable Care Act and the impending plans to Repeal/Replace, will be evaluated. High-level exploration of international health care markets and how they compare to the American market will be included. Overview of venture and private equity investing will be deeply probed, with many specific market examples of how investors develop an investment thesis, identify specific targets, diligence companies, and close an investment. Discussion around building financial modeling for target acquisitions will be presented, and the course will delve into the burgeoning area of healthcare analytics and outcomes management, including Artificial Intelligence, and its future impact on positioning, reimbursement and clinical outcomes. Sectors that will be discussed include: Healthcare services, Healthcare IT, Life Sciences, Pharma and Biotechnology, and Managed Care. The topic of the emerging importance of consumerism will be probed and consumer-directed healthcare related products and services will be explored, e.g. nutraceuticals, wellness, fitness, etc. Course will include preparatory readings, presentations from successful and powerful industry leaders, and robust in-class discussion and case studies requiring student engagement. Final grade will consist of class participation, one minor in-class presentation, and a final paper developing either a new healthcare business start-up proposition or presenting an identified investment target in the healthcare industry. Course will be especially valuable for those interested in a career in starting a healthcare company, healthcare investing, healthcare administration, or other healthcare-related management and goal of class will be provide an in-depth overview of how to get started or advance a professional interest in the industry.
GSBGEN508 | Strategic Pivoting for your Next Chapter | http://GSBGEN508.stanford.edu | instructors:Kluger, A. (PI) description:Many students come to the GSB with the intent to pivot upon leaving the institution.  Some students feel they have outgrown their position or business, or they feel drawn to a new area that better suits their values and interests, where they can make a greater contribution. Some students have no idea what they want to do after graduating, they just know they want to make a purposeful change. And finally, some students want to strategically change their direction for reputation reasons.  The average U.S. employee tenure is only 4-5 years and job roles often change dramatically within that timeframe. Pivoting is an intentional, methodical process for nimbly navigating career changes.  A recent Gallup study revealed that almost 90% of workers are either ¿not engaged¿ or ¿actively disengaged¿ from their jobs. A pivot is a change made of your own volition when you have reached a point in your career when you are ready for increased challenge and impact.Strategic Pivoting is a course specifically developed for any student who already plans to pivot in their career and wants to figure out how to successfully build and create their next chapter. In this course we will discuss four stages for how to best pivot:  1) Planting, how to assess and set a strong foundation of values, strengths and interests. 2)  Scanning, researching new and related skills, talking to others, and mapping potential opportunities. 3) Piloting, students conduct small, low-risk experiments to test their new direction, as well as gather real-time data and feedback. And 4) Launching, pulling the trigger, fully committed, to your carefully plotted pivot.The ultimate pay-off to Strategic Pivoting is acknowledging and adapting to a rapidly changing society when it comes to career paths. Because our careers are so fundamentally tied to our livelihood and sense of confidence, purpose and meaning, changes can be traumatic without a road map for traversing them. "Navigating this accelerated pace of change and this transitional career state, and learning to embrace it instead of resisting it, can become an edge and advantage."  Alex Rodriguez, Major League Baseball icon, ABC/Fox Sports/ESPN commentator, entrepreneur, and CEO of A-Rod Corp will be a featured Guest Speaker in this course. Alex has also had a history of successfully pivoting his career and defying expectations. He is presently getting ready to host his own ESPN interview show called, "Pivot."
GSBGEN511 | Making Social Ventures Happen by Attracting Financial and Human Capital | http://GSBGEN511.stanford.edu | instructors:Burgoyne, A. (PI); Leu, J. (SI) description:Social ventures require leadership, funding, expertise, skills and networks to get off the ground, grow and scale. This course will focus on the key strategies for building and leveraging a network of champions to capitalize a social venture at early-stage, and for sustaining and growing that network as the venture grows. This class is applicable to intrapreneurs, changemakers within major institutions, (private or public), board members, impact investors, those who aspire to be senior leaders within social ventures and social entrepreneurs (founders). Co-led by a practicing venture philanthropist and a social entrepreneur, this interactive, pragmatic course will: - Discuss the critical financial and human capital needs of organizations and companies at different life stages. - Explore the concept of champions and the different types of champions including board chairs, co-founders, mentors, faculty advisors, donors, investors, community evangelists, and fellow entrepreneurs. - Learn about effective networks and how to build them, including the role of communications, relationship-building, and crisis management. - Explore the concept of a powerful vulnerability and the art of "influence without authority" in attracting financial and human capital to the mission and making social ventures happen. Special emphasis will be given to developing co-founders and founding teams, boards and funders/investors as champions. - Develop a roadmap for the ways you will support social ventures throughout your career. - Meet social entrepreneurs and their champions who promote them within various power structures (major corporations, government, the institutional funding community) to learn about the successes and failures of their partnerships. Guest speakers will be posted prior to start of class. - Invite you to join instructors, guest speakers and fellow students for casual dinner on both Wednesdays after class.- Get to know your fellow classmates who share a passion for addressing the world's intractable problems and for creating systemic change.
GSBGEN514 | Creating and Scaling High Potential Ventures in Developing Economies | http://GSBGEN514.stanford.edu | instructors:Ciesinski, S. (PI); Rosen, H. (SI) description:This course addresses the distinctive challenges and opportunities of launching high-potential new ventures in developing economies. Developing economies are attractive targets for entrepreneurs because many are just starting to move up the growth curve, and they offer low-cost operating environments that can be great development labs for potentially disruptive innovations. They increase in attractiveness when their political institutions stabilize and they become more market-friendly. At the same time, developing economies pose serious challenges. Pioneering entrepreneurs take on significant risks to gain early mover advantages. Specifically, entrepreneurs will not be able to count on the same kind of supportive operating environments that we take for granted in the developed world. They often face cumbersome permit and licensing processes, poorly developed financial and labor markets, problematic import and export procedures, unreliable local supply chains, weak infrastructure, corruption, currency risks, limited investment capital, lack of financial exits and more. This course is designed to help would-be entrepreneurs - both founders and members of entrepreneurial teams - better understand and prepare for these issues as they pursue the opportunities and address the challenges to start, grow, and harvest their ventures in these environments. GSBGEN 514 is a seminar/discussion format in which students will read about and discuss the key challenges described above and potential solutions. Guests will describe their own startup and investing experiences in developing economies and answer questions. A framework based on the World Economic Forum (WEF) report on "Entrepreneurial Ecosystems Around the Globe and Company Growth Dynamics" together with updated Notes  will be used to structure the course. Each student will prepare a short write-up as a final assignment on a case chosen from a selection provided by the instructors. Note: Groups of students who want to work as a team to investigate a specific new venture idea in addition to participating in the seminar/discussion sessions should strongly also consider enrolling in GSB534.
GSBGEN515 | Essentials of Strategic Communication | http://GSBGEN515.stanford.edu | instructors:Abrahams, M. (PI); Hansen, K. (SI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:Successful leaders understand the power of authentic, memorable communication.This course uses the lens of oral communication and presentations, to introduce the essential elements of the strategic communication strategies that make authentic, memorable communication work.Focusing on oral communication and presentation, we introduce the essentials of communication strategy and persuasion: audience analysis, message construction, communicator credibility, and delivery.Deliverables include written documents, focusing on individual and team presentations, with students receiving continuous feedback to improve their communication effectiveness, and to sharpen their authentic leadership voice. This highly interactive, practical course, is focused on feedback to help students at all levels of communication mastery develop confidence in their speaking and writing.  Course includes presentations, assignments, lectures, discussions, simulated activities, in-class feedback, and filmed feedback. In this course you will learn to:-Recognize strategically effective communication-Implement the principles of strategic communication across different platforms-Develop clearly organized and effective presentations and documents-Diagnose and expand, your personal authentic communication styleAs you make your super round selection, keep in mind that wait lists have been long for this course.
GSBGEN520 | Designing Solutions by Leveraging the Frinky Science of the Human Mind | http://GSBGEN520.stanford.edu | instructors:Shiv, B. (PI); Ponce, S. (GP) description:The thrust of this seminar is about designing effective and innovative solutions by leveraging deep insights into the workings of the human brain, specifically the instinctual brain.  Designing solutions for organizations¿for example, "How do we design effective solutions that will foster innovation and risk-taking in large organizations?"  Designing solutions for markets so as to identify potentially disruptive new-business ideas; for existing organizations, fostering a competitive advantage, loyalty, customer life-time-value, etc.  Designing solutions for customer engagement and behavior change. Designing solutions for leaders, who need to be effective at making decisions and, arguably even more important, influencing others¿ decisions. The seminar will explore these topics by unraveling the workings of the human brain, leveraging frameworks that essentially capture the way instinctual brain systems shape our decisions, experiences and behaviors. Filled with mini-case studies and examples to illustrate the various topics, the seminar features an individual as well as a group project that is geared toward applying the learnings to identifying a potentially disruptive business idea.
GSBGEN531 | Global Trip Leadership Skills | http://GSBGEN531.stanford.edu | instructors:Chin, L. (PI); Mattish, P. (GP) description:This course is open only to leaders of the Global Study Trips. This course is experiential and designed to support the leadership learning and development of students leading Global Study Trips. Lectures, role plays, cases, and exercises will be used to demonstrate and practice the skills needed to successfully lead a group of peers as they develop into a learning community to explore an academic topic in locations around the world. Topics covered in the class include high performing teams, setting expectations, feedback and the influence process, culture, managing crises on the ground, and more. In addition to the weekly course meeting, students will be required to meet with their teammates and coaches for at least an additional 3.5 hours.
GSBGEN532 | Clean Energy Opportunities | http://GSBGEN532.stanford.edu | instructors:Reichelstein, S. (PI); Wood, D. (SI) description:This course examines business models and opportunities related to clean energy, specifically to low-carbon energy. We examine emerging trends for this sector in the context of technological change, business opportunities and the parameters set by public policy.
GSBGEN534 | Creating and Scaling High Potential Ventures in Developing Economies | http://GSBGEN534.stanford.edu | instructors:Ciesinski, S. (PI); Rosen, H. (SI) description:This course addresses the distinctive challenges and opportunities of launching high-potential new ventures in developing economies. Developing economies are attractive targets for entrepreneurs because many are just starting to move up the growth curve, and they offer low-cost operating environments that can be great development labs for potentially disruptive innovations. They increase in attractiveness when their political institutions stabilize and they become more market-friendly. At the same time, developing economies pose serious challenges. Pioneering entrepreneurs take on significant risks to gain early mover advantages. Specifically, entrepreneurs will not be able to count on the same kind of supportive operating environments that we take for granted in the developed world. They often face cumbersome permit and licensing processes, poorly developed financial and labor markets, problematic import and export procedures, unreliable local supply chains, weak infrastructure, corruption, currency risks, limited investment capital, lack of financial exits and more. This course is designed to help would-be entrepreneurs - both founders and members of entrepreneurial teams - better understand and prepare for these issues as they pursue the opportunities and address the challenges to start, grow, and harvest their ventures in these environments. GSB534 will utilize a framework based on the World Economic Forum (WEF) report on "Entrepreneurial Ecosystems Around the Globe and Company Growth Dynamics" with an updated Note written by the lecturers. The weekly sessions are team-based exercises for students who either have a specific idea or want to join a team of classmates to pursue more deeply an understanding of the team's country of focus and an initial investigation of the idea's viability. Students must come in willing to be team players and do the work necessary to complete this exercise over the full quarter. Each team member's contributions will be assessed by fellow teammates. Teams of AT LEAST 3 STUDENTS EACH will be formed before the start of class or on the first day of class at the latest so students can decide if they want to enroll. The team will describe, in a final presentation, the challenges and opportunities in their country using the WEF framework. The final presentation will also include the team's thoughts on the viability of their proposed venture and how it capitalizes on their country's assets and addresses its challenges. A detailed business plan is not required; however, specific recommendations and plans for next steps that would be carried out during a 3 to 6 month field and market research study in the country will be part of the final presentation. Note: Students are encouraged to enroll GSB514 to gain more detailed information through case studies, guest lecturers and further discussion.
GSBGEN538 | Power in Finance | http://GSBGEN538.stanford.edu | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Schulz, H. (SI) description:There is a growing sense that both capitalism and democracy are in crisis. Is the ¿financialization¿ of the economy to blame for undermining trust in corporations and governments? This interdisciplinary course explores these issues by focusing on power structures in the private and public sectors. You will gain an in-depth understanding of the interactions between individuals, corporations, and governments and the ways some stakeholders are seeking to change the status quo. Topics will range from corporate governance and accountability mechanisms, to financial institutions and the role of watchdogs, the justice system and the media, and visitors with relevant experiences will enrich each class discussion.
GSBGEN546 | Freedom, Democracy, and Capitalism | http://GSBGEN546.stanford.edu | instructors:Hennessey, K. (PI) description:This is an American civics course for future business leaders, intended to briefly (re-)introduce students to a few of the ideas that form the foundation of the American implementation of "the Western model" of freedom, liberal democracy, capitalism, and a rules-based international order. As time permits, we will learn to apply and combine these concepts to examine current policy topics in the news.
GSBGEN550 | Issues in Leadership | http://GSBGEN550.stanford.edu | instructors:Joss, R. (PI); Williams, J. (GP) description:This seminar will explore the nature and role of leadership in organizations. We will examine such questions as (1) What is leadership? (2) Why is it important? (3) What is it that leaders actually do? (4) How do they do it? (5) How are leaders developed? (6) Why do leaders succeed or fail? (7) What about your potential for leadership and your strategy for developing it?Our primary objective in this seminar is to achieve a deeper understanding of the nature and role of leadership in organizations. Our approach will be to examine a small sample of the literature, together with the amazing story of Ernest Shackleton and his Endurance crew, and then to probe several key questions through lively class discussion. The discussion, informed by the readings and also by our collective experiences, will seek to develop some general principles and observations about leadership - particularly about how you might better develop yourself as a leader.
GSBGEN551 | Innovation and Management in Health Care | http://GSBGEN551.stanford.edu | instructors:Chess, R. (PI) description:The health care system accounts for 18% of US GDP and is one of the fastest growing segments of the economy. This two unit class focuses on the interplay and tension between the main players in the health care field - providers of health care services (individual doctors, group practices, integrated health care systems), payors (insurances companies, employers, consumers, and government), patients, and innovator companies (biopharma, medical device, diagnostics, and health care IT). The course is designed for students with a broad diversity of backgrounds and interests who want to better understand the health care business and system. No prior experience in the health care or medical field is assumed or needed. The focus of the class will be primarily on the US health care system, but there will be limited discussion of non-US systems as well.  The course is divided into four modules:  ¿  An overview of the US Health Care System and the interplay between payers, providers, innovators, and patients¿  Provider delivery models, health care information technology, and incentive structures  -  The relationship between quality, cost, and access  -  Integrated systems, value-based, and fee for service models  -  New IT technologies, including electronic data records  -  The role of information and incentives ¿  Innovator business models and issues  -  Financing and managing new product development  -  Clinical trial management and gaining regulatory approval  -  Marketing, reimbursement, and sales strategies  -  Business models to drive innovation  ¿  Health care system reform The class will be taught primarily from the perspective of a business person operating a company rather than that of a policy maker, academic, or investor.  While there will be a few lectures to provide background and frameworks for course topics, most classes will involve a case discussion and prominent guest speakers from the health care industry.  Speakers will include CEOs and senior executives from Genomic Health, Blue Shield of California, Tenet Health, Venrock, Burd Health, Verily (Google Health), Myovant, and Stanford Medicine.
GSBGEN552 | Winning Writing | http://GSBGEN552.stanford.edu | instructors:Kramon, G. (PI) description:This two-week, six-session workshop will offer techniques and practical in-class exercises for writing better -- better memos, emails, feedback for colleagues, news releases, responses to questions from the media and from interviewers, and opinion pieces. Glenn Kramon, an editor who has helped New York Times reporters win 10 Pulitzer Prizes, will teach the course along with accomplished journalists with expertise in powerful, persuasive writing for business. They will provide not only helpful tips but constructive feedback on students' work. They will also share thoughts on how best to work with the news media.
GSBGEN564 | The Entertainment Industry - An Intersection of Art and Commerce | http://GSBGEN564.stanford.edu | instructors:Guttentag, B. (PI); Kocharyan, N. (GP) description:In this seminar we will explore the intersection of art and commerce in the entertainment industry. We will look at creating films and television programing that are artistically meaningful and/or have the potential for commercial success. The class will also look in depth at the rapidly changing business of entertainment. Films are increasingly used as a tool for social change, and we will examine this power. The entertainment industry is one of enormous importance ¿ both from a business and cultural standpoint, and has influence on virtually every sphere of our society. Sometimes the industry can seem baffling, mercurial, and characterized more by madness than method. But despite its uncertainties, Hollywood does have its own rules, rhythms, methods and strategies ¿ and examining and evaluating them will be a key part of this seminar. This is a time when many existing formulas are being reconsidered, retooled, or jettisoned, and new technologies and expanding markets are having a profound impact on the industry ¿ and tracking and analyzing this will be a key part of the course.I will also bring some of my professional experiences into the classroom (including directing, writing, and producing for film and television, etc.), and discuss these experiences through the intersection of the business and creative sides of the industry. We will discuss the entertainment industry¿s future, and address varied and effective paths for creating entertainment product with artistic and/or commercial merit. Students taking the course will be asked to be part of an in-class group exercise, and also complete a final group project where they will present their work in class.
GSBGEN565 | Political Communication: How Leaders Become Leaders | http://GSBGEN565.stanford.edu | instructors:Demarest, D. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:Politics, perhaps like no other arena, provides a rich and dramatic laboratory for studying the art and science of influential communication. Whether it is a local school bond election or a Congressional race, a Presidential debate or a State of the Union Address, the demanding communications of politics provide insights into our own strengths and gaps as a communicator and leader. Political campaigns, by their very nature, are highly visible, oriented toward very specific objectives, and increasingly leverage a variety of new media platforms. They are often emotionally charged, and rife with conflict and drama. The principles of political communications transcend politics, and are useful guides for leaders in business, the non-profit community, as well as government. How candidates, elected officials, and leaders in all kinds of organizations communicate vision, values, and experience, as well as how they perform in very fluid environments, not the least of which may be during a crisis, has a great deal to do with their career success. In its ninth year, this highly interactive course allows students to explore both theory and practice behind effective positioning and presentation. Last year was a presidential election year in the United States, and was an extraordinary event in many respects. Students will analyze and evaluate both successful and unsuccessful communications strategies of political campaigns and candidates. They will explore historic examples of US Presidential debates, from Nixon/Kennedy to the present. Further they will experience political events as they happen -- like last year's campaigns -- with each class drawing lessons from political developments around the nation and the world. Students will also hone their own strategic communications skills in activities requiring both written and spoken communication. This is not a course in political science, American government, or in public speaking. However, the engaged student will gain insights into those areas as well.The course is taught by David Demarest, Vice President of Public Affairs for Stanford University. Demarest has broad communications experience across the public and private sector in financial services, education, and government. After serving as Assistant U.S. Trade Representative, and Assistant Secretary of Labor in the Reagan Administration, in 1988 he served as Communications Director for Vice President George H. W. Bush's successful presidential campaign. He then became a member of the White House senior staff as White House Communications Director. After leaving government in 1993, he spent the next decade leading communications for two Fortune 50 companies, before coming to Stanford in 2005.
GSBGEN566 | Dilemmas. Decisions. | http://GSBGEN566.stanford.edu | instructors:Leslie, M. (PI); Levine, P. (SI); Bagalso, R. (GP) description:GSBGEN 566 is an elective course offered to 2nd-year MBA and MSx students. The goal of this course is to improve students' judgment in confronting challenging, real business situations encountered in the normal progression of corporate activities. The course aims to sharpen moral reasoning and build judgment without favoring a particular position. The course will be taught by Mark Leslie and Peter Levine, Lecturers.The course is taught using "vignettes". At the beginning of each class students will be given a one-page reading that describes a business situation which requires a decision to be made.  After in-depth discussion, a second page will be handed out, describing how the situation actually unfolded and challenges the class with new information.  This new information typically changes the dynamics of the case and requires a new decision to be made.  Often there is a third and fourth page that continues the dialogue.  Frequent student-to-student and student-to-instructor role-playing will be employed in the development of the session.  Note that for most classes there is little or no advanced preparation required, which is often the case when making real-world business decisions.Cases are drawn from a wide selection of actual business challenges with protagonists joining the class as guests whenever available.  Vignettes are based on topics such as raising venture capital, managing major industrial customers, product distribution agreements, board of director and fiduciary conflicts, developing financial instruments, senior management issues, work/life balance, etc.The class is extremely engaging - it is quite usual to find continuing discussion of the day's case outside the classroom among small groups of students.This class is for two GSB credits and will be graded on a pass/fail basis. Sixty percent of the final grade will be derived from classroom performance; the remainder will be based on a final written assignment describing a personal ethical situation that the student has faced in their careers.
GSBGEN569 | The Open Road: Innovation in Cars, Driving, and Mobility | http://GSBGEN569.stanford.edu | instructors:Hennessey, K. (PI) description:This course will look at ongoing and upcoming innovation in cars, driving, and mobility from three perspectives: (1) technology, (2) economics & business models, and (3) policy. We'll survey changes in powering vehicles (e.g. electrification and biofuels), in-vehicle connectivity and communications, and most especially changes in autonomy and self-driving vehicles. We'll examine at changes in the economics of cars, vehicles, and driving¿new business models, shared ownership, mobility as a service, as well as who some of the major players are in this nascent field and what they are doing/developing. And we'll explore the interactions of technology and economics with policy and broader societal changes¿direct effects like safety, legal liability, and who can drive; indirect effects on traffic, insurance, infrastructure needs, fuel taxes, and the environment; as well as longer-term and even bigger changes in daily life and where and how we live, work, and drive.The class is structured a bit like a large seminar. At the beginning of the quarter each student will, with the instructor, choose a topic to research. The student will interview experts on that topic and then write a memo. Most of our class sessions will be dedicated to discussing the memos written by you and your peers.
GSBGEN585 | Project You: Building and Extending your Personal Brand | http://GSBGEN585.stanford.edu | instructors:Kluger, A. (PI); Banks, T. (SI) description:GSB Graduates will be entering and re-entering the workforce needing to know and understand how to build, broadcast, maintain and protect their personal brand. Project You will help each student realize: What is a personal brand and how can it be unleashed as a valuable, competitive advantage? Why do you need a personal brand?  How do you differentiate yourself and create a brand identity and strategy? How do you use social and traditional media to enhance your brand effectively as well as measure the metrics of social media responses? And how do you know when to pivot and evolve your brand for sustainability? GSB Lecturer, Allison Kluger, a former Television Executive and Co-Lecturer, Tyra Banks, Supermodel/Entrepreneur/Television Executive/Business CEO, will lead this class.  They will help students create their own specific image to support their brand, teach them how to navigate on-air exposure, and help them create a long-term strategy for how to promote their personal brand across several media platforms. Within a highly interactive learning environment, image transformations, live broadcasting of presentations at a television station, live streaming of portions of the class on Facebook Live, and YouTube recordings of presentations will all be part of the assignments and requirements. The class culminates with the students sharing their honed personal brand to the public via three viable platforms (Facebook Live, local television, YouTube) to jump-start their personal brand extension. A 1:30 video stating "Who you are, what your personal brand is, and what you want it to be" will be a mandatory requirement before Class #1.
GSBGEN595 | High-Stakes Decision Making | http://GSBGEN595.stanford.edu | instructors:Osborne, G. (PI) description:Effective decision making is a critical skill for political and business leaders. Decisions must be made under pressure and often with incomplete information. George Osborne was Chancellor of the Exchequer of the United Kingdom in the aftermath of the global economic crisis, and this class will study three of the biggest challenges global economic policy makers faced during this time. Students will gain a framework for how senior leaders approach decision making, and will be given the chance to put this into practice. Each class will include a simulation where students are put in the role of a senior policy maker facing a key decision.
GSBGEN596 | Designing AI to Cultivate Human Well-Being | http://GSBGEN596.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Li, F. (SI) description:Overview: This is a multi-disciplinary cross-listed course focused on the goal of helping to build AI technology that promotes human flourishing. This course aims to expose (a) GSB students to deep learning and AI techniques focused on human well-being, and (b) CS students to behavioral science and design thinking, as well as frameworks and research to better understand human well-being and human-centered designs. Students will form cross-disciplinary teams and work on a final project that delves into an industry and proposes a detailed 5-year road map on how that industry might evolve with AI algorithms that focused on human well-being.  Course Description: The past decade of machine learning has given us self-driving cars, practical speech recognition, video game playing robots, effective web search, and revolutionary drug treatments. While Artificial Intelligence has been impressive in achieving these specific tasks, this does not always correspond to the broader goal of cultivating human well-being. The goal of this class is to bridge the gap between technology and societal objectives: How do we design AI to promote human flourishing? On Day 1, we draw on behavioral research to discuss what makes humans thrive. Behavioral research shows that for people to flourish, they need meaning, which involves an ability to understand and value others, a sense of belonging, and knowledge that they are making a contribution bigger than themselves.  The conditions for this occur when people feel they have the resources and insight to establish a sense of meaning for themselves.  Students will draw on this research to focus on building AI technology that effectively understands, communicates with, collaborates with and augment people. On days 2-5, leaders across industries (e.g., healthcare, transportation) that fundamentally affect human wellbeing will participate in lightning round exchanges to delve deeply into the challenge of building technology focused on human well-being, followed by interactive discussion with students. On the last day, the four-person cross-disciplinary teams will present their 2 page white paper proposals to invited guests.  Of note: this course is entirely about high-level "programming" and provides no technical insight on machine learning, data-mining or statistical pattern recognition.
GSBGEN598 | Stanford-Tsinghua Exchange Program | http://GSBGEN598.stanford.edu | instructors:Huang, S. (PI) description:This course is open only to students participating in the Stanford-Tsinghua Exchange Program and is required of those students. Requirements include researching and reporting on companies to be visited, attending lectures in preparation for the China visit, attending lectures at Tsinghua, and carrying out and reporting on a project with one or more Tsinghua student. Offered Pass/No Pass only. 2 units. Winter quarter.
GSBGEN622 | Presentation and Communication Skills for Academics | http://GSBGEN622.stanford.edu | instructors:McGonigal, K. (PI) description:Academics must effectively communicate the importance of their research to a wide range of audiences, including colleagues, students, stakeholders, and the general public, as well as in a variety of contexts, from academic conferences and job talks to one-on-one conversations, news interviews, and social media. This highly interactive course is designed to equip PhD students with the skills to confidently present their research and connect with varied audiences. Students will craft an elevator pitch for academic settings, create a 3-min TED-like talk aimed at the general public, learn how to document and tell the ¿story¿ of their research, and practice responding to Q&A and research critiques. This class combines best practices from public speaking with elements from related fields, including the art of improv and the science of communication.
GSBGEN641 | Advanced Empirical Methods | http://GSBGEN641.stanford.edu | instructors:Hartmann, W. (PI) description:This course covers various advanced quantitative methods with applications in marketing and economics. Topics include simulation-based estimation, dynamic decision processes, and other topics relating to empirical models of demand and supply. The course stresses the conceptual understanding and application of each technique. Students will learn to apply these techniques using Matlab or an equivalent language.
GSBGEN646 | Behavioral Economics and the Psychology of Decision Making | http://GSBGEN646.stanford.edu | instructors:Simonson, I. (PI); Bray, S. (GP) description:This seminar examines research on the psychology of judgment and choice. Although the normative issue of how decisions should be made is relevant, the descriptive issue of how decisions are made is the main focus of the course. Topics of discussion include choice, judgment heuristics and biases, decision framing, prospect theory, mental accounting, context effects, task effects, regret, and other topics. The goal of the seminar is twofold: to foster a critical appreciation of existing knowledge in behavioral decision theory, to develop the students' skills in identifying and testing interesting research ideas, and to explore research opportunities for adding to that knowledge.
GSBGEN675 | Microeconomic Theory | http://GSBGEN675.stanford.edu | instructors:Foarta, D. (PI); Williams, J. (GP) description:This course provides an introduction to microeconomic theory designed to meet the needs of students in the GSB non-Economics PhD programs. The course will cover the standard economic models of individual decision-making, models of consumer behavior and producer behavior under perfect competition, the Arrow-Debreu general equilibrium model, and some basic issues in welfare measurement. This class assumes a basic knowledge of undergraduate intermediate microeconomics, comfort with multivariable calculus and linear algebra and some exposure to real analysis.
GSBGEN697 | Research Fellows Practicum | http://GSBGEN697.stanford.edu | instructors:Wein, L. (PI) description:
