HRMGT210 | Org 2.0: The Analytics of Organization Design | http://HRMGT210.stanford.edu | instructors:Clement, J. (PI) description:This course will show you how to deploy analytics to find better solutions for a broad range of design issues, ranging from employee selection and retention to organizational structure and even organizational culture. You will cover a range of analytical techniques with broad applicability (machine learning, network analysis, and agent-based models for example). The suite of new ideas that characterize "Org2.0" represents a major departure from the mainstream approach to organization design, which relies extensively on copying "best practices" from other companies, represents organizations as "boxes and arrows" organization charts, and is typically obsessed with incentive compensation and reporting as the key organizational/HR decisions. In Org2.0, you will learn how to use analytics to find out what works specifically for your company (rather than what worked in others), develop detailed models of interactions among employees (rather than among boxes) to help them collaborate successfully, and think of organization design as a combination of factors which can all be better understood through analytics. This is a hands-on class: it will rely extensively on group exercises, in which you will be able to learn enough about analytical tools and programming to be able to collaborate with analysts and evaluate their work. You will also have the chance to interact with industry speakers who have been applying these techniques in practice. A great aspect of the course is that it will bring you value regardless of how much you already know about analytics or statistics: practical exercises will familiarize you with how analytical techniques are implemented, and class discussions will enable those already familiar to contribute to others and expand their own knowledge. What you learn in the class will be an asset to you in a wide range of jobs linked to strategy execution, post-merger integration, re-organizations and human resources, regardless of how big or small your company is.
HRMGT286 | Managing People in the Global Context | http://HRMGT286.stanford.edu | instructors:Ranganathan, A. (PI) description:The world of work has changed fundamentally - firms are now integrally linked to the global economy and many of you will manage teams of people located in different countries. What are the typical "people" challenges that arise when working across borders? We will answer this question by looking at topics such as hiring, job design, teamwork, training, pay and promotions. We will use exercises, cases from both developed and developing economies and guest lectures.
HRMGT302 | Incentives and Productivity | http://HRMGT302.stanford.edu | instructors:Lazear, E. (PI) description:This course is designed to teach the student how to use economics to solve practical personnel problems that affect worker productivity. Topics include: selecting the best workers to hire, training workers, turnover, setting compensation strategically, structuring salespersons' commissions, downsizing, using promotions as an incentive mechanism, and other topics. Examples and cases will be presented to demonstrate the importance of using economic techniques to structure human resources programs. The course will appeal most to the student who expects to be a general manager or who hopes to run his or her own business. Although the human resources specialist may benefit from this course, the emphasis will be on decisions that affect personnel, but are made primarily by general managers. The class format is somewhat unusual. Most classes consist of lecture with questions, but two are class workshops. The lecture will present a theoretical development of a topic. The questions discussed during the last part of the lecture period will involve practical business application of the theory presented in lecture. This course is more technical than other human resources courses, but should be accessible to anyone who has successfully completed the economics and statistics courses in the MBA core. Every student is expected to know calculus and basic probability and statistics. Although I will not emphasize the technical aspects on the final exam, the problem sets will require some knowledge of mathematics. To ease your fears, many "poets" have taken variants of this course in the past and have done well.There will be graded team problem sets and a final exam.
HRMGT382 | People Operations: From Startup to Scaleup | http://HRMGT382.stanford.edu | instructors:Rao, H. (PI); Jaswa, S. (SI); Lilly, J. (SI) description:This course focuses attention on human resource strategies for startups. It discusses recruitment, incentives, design of jobs, development of talent, leadership and empowerment challenges in startups. We will deal with questions ranging from equity splits to founding team dynamics, hiring talent to the sequencing of hires. We will use a mix of "live cases" from the field, and lectures.
HRMGT503 | People Analytics | http://HRMGT503.stanford.edu | instructors:Goldberg, A. (PI) description:How can we use big data, machine learning and artificial intelligence to inform design, hiring, promotion and human resource management processes in organizations? We will discuss the theoretical and practical challenges that these issues present, and the ways by which data can help resolve them. In doing so, we will explore various data analytic methods and different data types, as well as the pitfalls and ethical issues their use introduces.
