MKTG240 | Marketing Management | http://MKTG240.stanford.edu | instructors:Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Tully, S. (PI) description:The objectives of this course are to introduce students to the substantive and procedural aspects of marketing management and to sharpen skills for critical analytical thinking and effective communication. Specifically, the goals are to introduce students to marketing strategy and to the elements of marketing analysis: customer analysis, competitor analysis, and company analysis; to familiarize students with the elements of the marketing mix (product strategy, pricing, advertising and promotion, and distribution), and to enhance problem solving and decision-making abilities in these operational areas of marketing; and to provide students with a forum (both written and verbal) for presenting and defending their own recommendations, and for critically examining and discussing the recommendations of others.
MKTG243 | Marketing Management, Accelerated | http://MKTG243.stanford.edu | instructors:Narayanan, S. (PI); Freedman, S. (GP) description:The objective of this course is to introduce you to modern marketing practice at an accelerated level. Marketing is key to the success of an organization and requires an ability to design and execute a coherent strategy across a number of different dimensions. Specifically, we study in depth each of the tactical P's "price, promotion, product, and place (distribution)" and do so through the structural lens of the three C's "customer, competition, and company, with a particular focus on the customer." Going beyond the fundamentals, the course emphasizes two specific areas of specialization and learning throughout. First, it focuses on data-driven techniques for assessing markets and teaches you which of these techniques apply to different marketing decision problems. Second, the course takes seriously the idea that consumers often want different things. It therefore focuses on how you can generate company value by understanding and serving heterogeneous consumer wants and needs.
MKTG249 | MSx: Marketing | http://MKTG249.stanford.edu | instructors:Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI) description:Every business has two kinds of problems: 1) Not having customers and 2) everything else. Marketing addresses the first problem. With increased access to information and fast-changing technology the role of marketing has broadened significantly. To attract and retain profitable customers, managers must identify and measure consumers' needs and wants, assess the competitive environment, select the most appropriate customer targets, and then develop multi-faceted marketing programs that satisfy consumers' needs better than the competition. The objective of this class is to provide you with perspectives on classical and modern day marketing, and to teach you how to take both a strategic and analytical approach towards contemporary marketing challenges.
MKTG326 | Customer Acquisition for New Ventures | http://MKTG326.stanford.edu | instructors:Lattin, J. (PI); Patel, A. (GP) description:The focus of this course is on the strategies and methods used by early-stage companies to acquire customers (through outbound or inbound marketing) and to activate and retain them (i.e., to encourage repeat behavior and/or increase the frequency of interaction). Throughout the course, we will examine topics such as search engine marketing (SEM), content marketing, affiliate marketing, social media campaigns, mobile applications, freemium strategies, and the use of web analytics for tracking customer acquisition and conversion. The focus will be mainly on digital marketing channels, and the emphasis will be more B2C than B2B. Instruction will consist of case discussion, exercises and simulations, and guest lectures, with students working in groups to apply their learning to improve the process of customer acquisition.
MKTG337 | Applied Behavioral Economics | http://MKTG337.stanford.edu | instructors:Simonson, I. (PI) description:The field of behavioral economics couples scientific research on the psychology of decision making with economic theory to better understand what motivates economic agents, including consumers, managers, public policymakers, investors, and employees. In this course, we will examine topics such as the ¿¿"irrational"¿? patterns of how people think about products, money and investments, designing strategies and offerings to change behavior, and the drivers of happiness and the role of emotions in decision-making. This highly interdisciplinary course will be particularly relevant to students with interests in general management, entrepreneurship, Marketing, Strategy, Behavioral Finance, public policy, and nonprofit. Topics covered will include: Rationality and choice, choice complexity, intertemporal choice, emotional influences on choice, the role of behavioral economics in marketing, spending and savings behavior, social welfare, choice architecture, and defaults. The goals of this course are threefold: a) to study the basic principles of behavioral economics, b) To learn the application of the principles to various aspects of business and policy, and c) to think about a framework for developing products, programs, and tactics that are behaviorally informed. The course is composed of a mixture of lectures, exercises, academic paper reviews, and in-class case discussions. The purpose of the lectures is to present and discuss theories, concepts, analytical techniques and empirical findings. In-class exercise will be used to apply the concepts and techniques covered in the class. We will discuss a few business cases. In addition, students working in teams will prepare an analysis and recommended behavioral strategy for a company/startup of their choice.
MKTG344 | Marketing Research | http://MKTG344.stanford.edu | instructors:Sahni, N. (PI) description:How large is the market for a product, what is important for the target segment? How does change in the product design affect profitability? This course aims to help students ask such business questions and find data-driven answers to them. The main objectives are to equip students with: 1) an understanding of the value of data - what intelligence it can and cannot provide, 2) exposure to state-of-the-art quantitative tools including conjoint analysis, and unsupervised machine learning techniques such as cluster analysis to analyze the data, and 3) sufficient hands-on experience with these tools for answering students' own marketing research questions from the perspective of an entrepreneur, marketer or a consultant. The course is designed to address substantive marketing problems such as: market segmentation, targeting, forecasting demand, pricing, and developing new products. We will use a mix of lectures, exercises, cases and a project to learn the material.
MKTG346 | Humor: Serious Business | http://MKTG346.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Bagdonas, N. (SI) description:YOU, oh fearless leader of the future (and maybe present). Are very important.You will make critical and far-reaching economic, political, and social decisions in your quest beyond Stanford to change lives, change organizations, and change the world. That's serious stuff.So, why humor? The late journalist Eric Sevareid said "Next to power without honor, the most dangerous thing in the world is power without humor." Our goal is to pin you down and not let you leave Stanford without a healthy dose of humanity, humility, and intellectual perspective that only humor can bring.This class is about the power (and importance) of humor to make and scale positive change in the world, and also - surprise! - to achieve business objectives, build more effective and innovative organizations, cultivate stronger bonds, and capture more lasting memories. We will explore various aspects of levity and humor, reveal insight into what makes people laugh, and provide tools to harness humor safely and effectively in business. By the end of class, you should: Discover: (Re)discover humor in your stories and life; understand your unique style and the styles of others.Play: Apply techniques from comedians and play with incorporating humor into otherwise unfunny moments.Lead: Embed humor into your leadership style; understand the nuance of how to do this as your status shifts across roles and contexts. Activate: Amplify humor, using it to create cultures of levity in teams, organizations, and in the world.Welcome to your (re)introduction to humor.
MKTG373 | Monetization | http://MKTG373.stanford.edu | instructors:Nair, H. (PI); Thygesen, A. (SI) description:This course examines the fundamental issues of creating a strategy for monetization and revenue growth within an organization. Students learn about setting an organization's business model design, aligning various functional areas within the company to implement a monetization strategy, and the tradeoffs that occur when choosing amongst profitable monetization policies for the firm. They master concepts, frameworks, and tools to assess an industry and a firm's pricing strategy and business models, and to craft alternatives. They also study the interplay between marketing and sales, advertising and data and analytics in shaping a winning monetization policy. Topics we will cover include monetizing online content and strategies in ad-driven industries, understanding freemium models and installed-base competition, monetization of consumer data, SaaS models and enterprise business, business models from the perspective of investors and venture capitalists, regulatory considerations, and linking monetization to the ability to measure and capture value. We will use a mix of cases and lectures along with extensive participation from industry leaders to bring to light the various issues in class. There is a bias towards technology-driven markets.
MKTG532 | Persuasion | http://MKTG532.stanford.edu | instructors:Tormala, Z. (PI); Davis, S. (GP) description:The aim of this course is to provide insight into the psychology of persuasion. We will take an evidence-based approach and explore research and theory in this domain to identify powerful techniques for changing people's attitudes and behaviors. We will apply our insights broadly to examine the features that make for an effective persuasive appeal in a wide range of settings (e.g., an ad, a pitch to investors, etc.), and students will practice designing and implementing persuasive messages. In each session, I will share classic and cutting edge research on persuasion emanating from the fields of social and consumer psychology. These insights will be organized around a few basic principles. We will then work together to brainstorm and practice the application of the insights to real world persuasion settings.
MKTG534 | The Travel and Airline Industry | http://MKTG534.stanford.edu | instructors:Nair, H. (PI); Gillani, S. (SI); Lion-Transler, C. (GP) description:This class provides an overview of the travel and airline industry focusing on strategy, business models, operations and trends. Topics we will cover include competition, service delivery, distribution, pricing, planning and the use of analytics within verticals such as airlines, hotels, online travel agencies and cruises. We will also discuss trends such as the sharing economy and the role of user generated content in facilitating travel. We will hear from several C-level executives who have started or led businesses in the Travel Industry.
MKTG535 | Product Launch | http://MKTG535.stanford.edu | instructors:Levav, J. (PI); Siegelman, R. (SI) description:Our focus is on the question, "When launching a product, what are the framing issues that will help determine success?" In particular, we will provide you with tools to analyze market situations and determine whether it makes sense to launch a product or engage in a marketing-related investment. The course is not designed to cover issues such as execution of a strategy (although we will touch on this a bit), but on whether to enter a market to begin with. Thus, the course is decision oriented; we want you to think about market entry decisions and how you would make them. The tools that you will be provided won't consist of equations; instead, we'll arm you with a set of questions to ask, whose answers will help you make better decisions.This course is an advanced applications marketing course. Unlike the base core course that is designed to cover every basic topic in marketing, here we focus on a number of basic questions and explore them in depth. Although we will have some lectures for background, the bulk of this endeavor will be accomplished through case discussions. In other words, we can't and won't cover everything, as this course is not designed to be comprehensive. We are going to rely on your academic background in marketing to cover the basics; here and there, it is possible that some material will be a review of what you've done before (there's nothing wrong with a little de ja vu). Unfortunately, due to the tight schedule we will not be able to cover any of the basics that are not already included in the course material.The course includes, cases, lectures, and guest lectures.
MKTG574 | Rethinking Purpose | http://MKTG574.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Bagdonas, N. (SI); Bedecarre, T. (SI) description:We assume happiness is stable, an endpoint to achieve our goal to chase. It's not. Recent behavioral research suggests that the meaning of happiness changes every 5-10 years, raising the question: how might we build organizations and lives that cultivate happiness? Research suggests it is better to aim for meaning.  In Rethinking Purpose, we explore how to rethink purpose in work and life.  Students will hear from guests and take a field trip to see how Google has reconsidered purpose. Building on the principles for Solve for X (www.solveforx.com), a platform encouraging moonshot thinking to solve huge problems in the world, we'll harness design thinking principles to create personal moonshots and a path to continue to find those moonshots over the life course. Lastly, we'll map out how to use time in ways that would help build innovative teams, products, and ultimately lives that have positive, meaningful, lasting impact in the world.
MKTG575 | Consumer Behavior | http://MKTG575.stanford.edu | instructors:Huang, S. (PI) description:Contemporary approaches to marketing emphasize the importance of adopting a consumer focus, from determining consumers' wants and needs, understanding their motivation, to shaping their attitudes and ensuring their loyalty. This course provides insight into consumer psychology and the means by which consumer behavior can be influenced or altered. The course has both theoretical and practical objectives in that we will: (1) explore theory and research that is relevant to understanding consumer psychology, (2) apply these theories and findings to generate novel ideas for effective marketing techniques. By shedding light on the psychological underpinnings of consumers' motivation, attitudes, preferences, and decision-making styles, this course will help students make more insightful and effective marketing decisions, as well as developing novel ideas for grabbing attention, shaping behavior, and changing consumers' minds.
MKTG622 | Behavioral Research in Marketing III: Consumer Behavior Classics | http://MKTG622.stanford.edu | instructors:Huang, S. (PI) description:The purpose of this seminar is to provide PhD level coverage of the major research work carried out in consumer behavior.  For each topic considered, a selection of articles with a specific focus on "early classics" will be distributed and discussed. For each topic, our goals will be to determine the main ideas and research questions driving work in each topic area, how these authors positioned their work and tested their ideas, what made these papers "classics," where the gaps are, and what ideas for new research those gaps imply.
MKTG641 | Behavioral Research in Marketing I | http://MKTG641.stanford.edu | instructors:Wheeler, S. (PI); Patel, A. (GP) description:This course prepares the student to do empirical behavioral research. It will cover all aspects of the research process, from hypothesis generation to experimental design to data analysis to writing up your results and submitting them for publication.
MKTG642 | Behavioral Research in Marketing II: Consumer Behavior | http://MKTG642.stanford.edu | instructors:Levav, J. (PI) description:This PhD seminar provides coverage of the major research carried out in consumer research both in marketing and psychology. A vast set of topic will be covered including conscious and non-conscious consumer goals, motivations, emotions, attention and perception and consumer decision processes. The course will help students hone their ability to conceptualize, operationalize, and develop research idea and will provide a grasp of what it takes to be a successful academic in the field of consumer behavior.
MKTG644 | Quantitative Research in Marketing | http://MKTG644.stanford.edu | instructors:Sahni, N. (PI); Brown, D. (GP) description:The goal of this seminar is to familiarize students with the quantitative marketing literature and develop the process of generating research ideas and topics. Sessions will involve a mix of: i) a discussion of papers in a particular area in quantitative marketing; and/or ii) a discussion of students' research ideas with respect to topics.The format will mix student presentations of papers with lectures by the instructor(s). When discussing papers in the literature, the focus will be on the topic and research question and not the methodological approach. When discussing research ideas, students should be able to articulate why their question is interesting, where it fits in the literature and how they would address their question.
MKTG645 | Empirical Analysis of Dynamic Decision Contexts | http://MKTG645.stanford.edu | instructors:Nair, H. (PI); Lion-Transler, C. (GP) description:This course will focus on empirical tools for analyzing dynamic decision contexts, wherein current actions of firms or consumers have effects on future payoffs, profits and/or competitive conduct. The course will build the relevant material generally, but our applications will be mostly focused on empirical marketing, operations and industrial organization problems. We will have an applied focus overall, emphasizing the practical aspects of implementation, especially programming. The overall aim of the class is to help students obtain the skills to implement these methods in their research. By the end of the class, students are expected to be able to formulate a dynamic decision problem, program it in a language such as Matlab or C, and to estimate the model from data. The course starts with discrete choice markovian decision problems, and continuous markovian decision problems, and focus on building the computational toolkit for the numerical analysis of these problems. We then move on to specific applications, and discuss multi-agent dynamic equilibrium models. Finally, we discuss recently proposed advanced methods for alleviating computational burden in dynamic models.
MKTG646 | Bayesian Inference: Methods and Applications | http://MKTG646.stanford.edu | instructors:Narayanan, S. (PI); Freedman, S. (GP) description:The course aims to develop a thorough understanding of Bayesian inference, with a special focus on empirical applications in marketing. The course will start with a brief theoretical foundation to Bayesian inference and will subsequently focus on empirical methods. Initial topics would include Bayesian linear regression, multivariate regression, importance sampling and its applications. Subsequently, the course will focus on Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods including the Gibbs Sampler and the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm and their applications. The overall focus of the course will be on applying these methods for empirical research using a programming language such as R.
MKTG661 | Attitudes and Persuasion | http://MKTG661.stanford.edu | instructors:Tormala, Z. (PI) description:The goal of this course geared toward graduate students in marketing, psychology, and related disciplines is to explore the issues and questions that currently engage researchers in the domain of attitudes and persuasion. We will cover classic topics in this domain, but in each case we will emphasize new findings or recent directions.  Students who take this course will become familiar with research methods and major issues in attitudes research and will have a better understanding of how individuals form, use, change, and maintain their attitudes. Throughout the course, students will be encouraged to critique existing research and formulate new research ideas.
MKTG691 | PhD Directed Reading | http://MKTG691.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Tully, S. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
MKTG692 | PhD Dissertation Research | http://MKTG692.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Tully, S. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
MKTG698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | http://MKTG698.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Tully, S. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
MKTG699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | http://MKTG699.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Nair, H. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Tully, S. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
MKTG802 | TGR Dissertation | http://MKTG802.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Tully, S. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI) description:
