OIT245 | Optimization and Simulation Modeling | http://OIT245.stanford.edu | instructors:Bimpikis, K. (PI); Khosravi, K. (SI); Alvarez, K. (GP) description:This course provides basic skills in quantitative modeling. The objective is to familiarize students with the main steps in an analytical approach to business decision making: constructing an abstract model for a relevant business problem, formulating it in a spreadsheet environment such as Microsoft Excel, and using the tools of optimization, Monte Carlo simulation and sensitivity analysis to generate and interpret recommendations. The class will be taught in a lab style, with short in-class exercises done in small teams, focusing on a variety of applications drawn from online advertising, healthcare, finance, supply chain management, revenue and yield optimization.
OIT247 | Optimization and Simulation Modeling - Accelerated | http://OIT247.stanford.edu | instructors:Xu, K. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:The course is aimed at students who already have a background or demonstrated aptitude for quantitative analysis, and thus are comfortable with a more rapid coverage of the topics, in more depth and breadth, than in OIT 245.
OIT248 | Optimization and Simulation Modeling - Advanced | http://OIT248.stanford.edu | instructors:Whang, S. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:This course constitutes an advanced option in the menu of classes satisfying the Management Perspectives requirement in Optimization and Simulation Modeling (OSM). The course is a superset of OIT 245 and OIT 247, starting with a very fast paced overview of basic concepts, and quickly diving into more advanced topics and software tools. By the end of the course, students should (1) leave with a good understanding of different types of optimization and simulation models and when they are useful; (2) be able to solve real-world models using up-to-date software; (3) when faced with a business problem, be able to identify what type of optimization model is appropriate, and how to set it up most efficiently; (4) be able to understand and discuss model outputs in a critical fashion. The class is taught in an interactive style, focusing on a variety of applications drawn from advertising, healthcare, finance, supply chain management, revenue management and pricing, scheduling, and risk management. We will be using Python as the basic software, complemented with suitable packages for formulating and solving optimization models (e.g., the Gurobi software) and for conducting Monte Carlo simulation. Students should be comfortable using these software packages by the end of the class, but no specific prior experience with these packages is necessary. Some prior coding experience is helpful, but is not a strict requirement for the course.
OIT262 | Operations | http://OIT262.stanford.edu | instructors:Plambeck, E. (PI) description:This course focuses on basic managerial issues arising in the operations of both manufacturing and service industries. The objectives of the course are to familiarize students with the problems and issues confronting operations managers and to introduce language, conceptual models, and analytical techniques that are broadly applicable in confronting such problems. The spectrum of different process types used to provide goods and services is developed and then examined through methods of process analysis and design.
OIT269 | MSx: Operations and Strategies | http://OIT269.stanford.edu | instructors:Gur, Y. (PI) description:Operations refer to the processes through which businesses produce and deliver products or services. Managing operations well is necessary in order for these processes to be completed in a timely manner, consume minimal resources and costs, and achieve their goal effectively. This course focuses on managerial issues arising in the operations of manufacturing and service industries. The objectives of the course are to introduce operational problems and challenges faced by managers, as well as language, conceptual models, analytical techniques and strategies that are broadly applicable in confronting such problems.
OIT271 | Operations - Accelerated | http://OIT271.stanford.edu | instructors:Lee, H. (PI) description:This course, which is an accelerated version of OIT 262 (Operations), focuses on basic managerial issues arising in the operations of both manufacturing and service industries, and on strategic issues arising in global supply chains. The objectives of the course are to familiarize students with the problems and issues confronting operations managers and to introduce language, conceptual models, and analytical techniques that are broadly applicable in confronting such problems.
OIT272 | Online Marketplaces | http://OIT272.stanford.edu | instructors:Weintraub, G. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:How does Uber match drivers to passengers? How does Airbnb select the set of listings to show to a guest in a search? How does eBay manage trust and reputation between buyers and sellers? How does Google optimize auctions for billions of dollars' worth of online advertising? This course focuses on the basic analytic and data science tools used to address these and other challenges encountered in the most exciting online marketplaces in the world. With hands-on exercises we will open and understand the "black-box" of online marketplaces' operations. We will cover application areas such as transportation, rentals, sharing, e-commerce, labor markets, and advertising, leveraging tools from D&D, OSM, and Micro (all base). In particular, the course will use tools from R covered in D&D. Overall, the course will provide basic business knowledge for future investors, product managers, sales and marketing managers, operation managers, and anyone interested on online marketplaces.
OIT274 | Data and Decisions - Base | http://OIT274.stanford.edu | instructors:Benkard, L. (PI); Spiess, J. (PI) description:Base Data and Decisions is a first-year MBA course in statistics and regression analysis. The course is taught using a flipped classroom model that combines extensive online materials with a lab-based classroom approach. Traditional lecture content will be learned through online videos, simulations, and exercises, while time spent in the classroom will be discussions, problem solving, or computer lab sessions. Content covered includes basic probability, sampling techniques, hypothesis testing, t-tests, linear regression, and prediction models. The group regression project is a key component of the course, and all students will learn the statistical software package R.
OIT275 | Online Marketplaces, Accelerated | http://OIT275.stanford.edu | instructors:Weintraub, G. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:How does Uber match drivers to passengers? How does Airbnb select the set of listings to show to a guest in a search? How does eBay manage trust and reputation between buyers and sellers? How does Google optimize auctions for billions of dollars' worth of online advertising? This course focuses on analytics and data science tools used to address these and other challenges encountered in the most exciting online marketplaces in the world. With hands-on exercises we will open and understand the "black-box" of online marketplaces' operations. We will cover application areas such as transportation, rentals, sharing, e-commerce, labor markets, and advertising, leveraging tools from D&D, OSM, and Micro. In particular, the course will use tools from R covered in D&D. Overall, the course will provide business knowledge for future investors, product managers, sales and marketing managers, operation managers, and anyone interested on online marketplaces. [This is the accelerated version of OIT 272 and knowledge from D&D and OSM is expected at the accelerated (or advanced) level.]
OIT276 | Data and Decisions - Accelerated | http://OIT276.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Accelerated Data and Decisions is a first-year MBA course in statistics and regression analysis. The course is taught using a flipped classroom model that combines extensive online materials with a more lab-based classroom approach. Traditional lecture content will be learned through online videos, simulations, and exercises, while time spent in the classroom will be discussions, problem solving, or computer lab sessions. Content covered includes sampling techniques, hypothesis testing, t-tests, linear regression, and prediction models. The group regression project is a key component of the course, and all students will learn the statistical software package R. The accelerated course is designed for students with strong quantitative backgrounds. Students taking this course need to be comfortable with mathematical notation, algebra, and basic probability. Students without quantitative backgrounds should consider enrolling in the base version of the course.
OIT333 | Design for Extreme Affordability | http://OIT333.stanford.edu | instructors:Coulson, S. (PI); Greenberg, S. (SI); Kohn, M. (SI); Molina, A. (SI) description:Design for Extreme Affordability is a two-quarter project-based course hosted by Stanford's d.school and jointly offered by the Graduate School of Business and the School of Mechanical Engineering. We focus on the development of products and services to improve the lives of the world's poorest citizens. This multidisciplinary project-based experience creates an enabling environment in which students learn to design products and services that will change lives. Topics include user empathy, product and service design, rapid prototype engineering and testing, social entrepreneurship, business modeling, ethics, partnerships, team dynamics and project management. Since the course was first offered, we have executed 150 projects with 61 partners in 32 emerging and developing economies around the world. Many of the projects have been implemented and are achieving significant social impact. Students have worked on Agricultural, Medical, Water, Sanitation, Energy, Lighting, Nutrition and Education based projects. For further information go to extreme.stanford.edu
OIT334 | Design for Extreme Affordability | http://OIT334.stanford.edu | instructors:Coulson, S. (PI); Greenberg, S. (SI); Kohn, M. (SI); Molina, A. (SI) description:Design for Extreme Affordability is a two-quarter project-based course hosted by Stanford's d.school and jointly offered by the Graduate School of Business and the School of Mechanical Engineering. We focus on the development of products and services to improve the lives of the world's poorest citizens. This multidisciplinary project-based experience creates an enabling environment in which students learn to design products and services that will change lives. Topics include user empathy, product and service design, rapid prototype engineering and testing, social entrepreneurship, business modeling, ethics, partnerships, team dynamics and project management. Since the course was first offered, we have executed 150 projects with 61 partners in 32 emerging and developing economies around the world. Many of the projects have been implemented and are achieving significant social impact. Students have worked on Agricultural, Medical, Water, Sanitation, Energy, Lighting, Nutrition and Education based projects. For further information go to extreme.stanford.edu
OIT356 | Electronic Business | http://OIT356.stanford.edu | instructors:Mendelson, H. (PI) description:The course focuses on the analysis and design of business models that are enabled by Information Technology (IT). It considers the impact of IT on multiple industries and ways to take advantage of new opportunities that are enabled by new technologies. Preparation includes case studies involving both qualitative and quantitative analyses; homework assignments involving quantitative and some qualitative analyses; pre-class online quizzes and a group project involving the design of a new business model that takes advantage of modern IT.  A typical class will cover an aspect of a business model which is enabled by IT in an industry which is transformed by technology.  Sample topics include the transformation of retail, media, electronic commerce logistics, transportation and healthcare.  Some classes will focus on the interaction of strategy and IT, building on what you learned earlier in the program. Students opting to go into technology would probably benefit the most from the course, but this will require a significant time commitment.  For students rooted in technology, some of the classes will reinforce and structure things they have experienced already, and others would introduce them to new applications.  MSx students are invited to petition to take the course.
OIT364 | Global Operations | http://OIT364.stanford.edu | instructors:Lee, H. (PI) description:Globalization of businesses has resulted in companies having to manage global networks of suppliers, integrators, contract manufacturers, logistics service providers, distributors, and service support operators in geographically dispersed locations. The customer network is also globally distributed. This course will focus on (1) how global and international companies can overcome the geographical, cultural, and organizational barriers, and leverage the strengths of the network to create values, (2) how these companies should best structure their network, like in-sourcing or outsourcing, and off-shoring or on-shoring, to give the best competitive advantage, and (3) how operations can support the overall business strategies.. The course will be based on cases on innovative strategies and tactics used by global and international companies, including how they can do so in emerging economies.
OIT367 | Business Intelligence from Big Data | http://OIT367.stanford.edu | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI) description:The objective of this course is to analyze real-world situations where significant competitive advantage can be obtained through large-scale data analysis, with special attention to what can be done with the data and where the potential pitfalls lie. Students will be challenged to develop business-relevant questions and then solve for them by manipulating large data sets. Problems from advertising, eCommerce, finance, healthcare, marketing, and revenue management are presented. Students learn to apply software (such as R/Python and SQL) to data sets to create knowledge that will inform decisions. The course covers fundamentals of statistical modeling, machine learning, and data-driven decision making. Students are expected to layer these topics over an existing facility with mathematical notation, algebra, calculus, probability, and basic statistics.
OIT368 | Design for Disruption | http://OIT368.stanford.edu | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Braden, R. (SI) description:"Disruption" is a widely used and frequently misunderstood term. Understanding it better can help you think about your organization or team¿s strategy whether you're trying to disrupt, avoid being disrupted, or simply scanning the horizon for new trends in your industry.This course takes a unique view on disruption by combining disruption theory research, innovation strategy, and the ways that business practitioners and Silicon Valley entrepreneurs have redefined disruption over the last decade. We'll bring these perspectives together in a framework for gauging the disruptive potential of an innovation - that is, how likely the innovation is to fundamentally change the structure of an industry. You'll learn the critical roles that customers, value chains, and technologies play in driving such changes.While the popular press tends to focus on disruption in the technology sector, you'll see that it happens in every industry and sector, it can be done by mature, established companies, and it's not just for technology startups. We'll study disruption in a wide variety of industries, like nonprofits, pharmaceutical companies, food processing companies, airline manufacturers (Boeing) and chemical manufacturers. And of course, we'll talk about Uber, Airbnb, Microsoft, and Amazon too.In some cases we'll take a very futuristic view of disruption in which you will see how a very recent discovery can lead to fascinating possibilities for disruption that may be 10-20 years down the line. Distinguishing between developments that will last and drive changes vs. developments that are temporary fads is something the frameworks in this course will help you unpack.You'll also have the opportunity to investigate how established firms (we call them incumbents) can avoid the perils of being disrupted and left behind. You will identify the qualities of incumbents that have faced disruption successfully, and the missteps of those that have not.Finally, you will work on a capstone mini project in which you will apply the course frameworks to develop a disruption hypothesis for the industry of your choosing. This could be the industry you worked in the past or an industry you plan to work in the future, an industry that you may want to disrupt, or simply an industry that's compelling to you. Topics covered include:The Disruption Framework and the Three Pillars of DisruptionDisruption via new entrantsIncumbent self-disruption, and when incumbents miss the disruptionNonprofit vs. for-profit disruptionThe Five Forces FrameworkDeveloping and testing a new disruption hypothesis using design thinking and lean startupCases and examples we¿ll examine include:Impossible FoodsHIV treatment pharmaceuticalsWarby ParkerStarbucksAmazon Web ServicesFundboxBoeingDow CorningMicrosoftCalifornia Health Care FoundationKodakFastbrick RoboticsPelotonPokémon GoKodakUberAirbnb
OIT384 | Biodesign Innovation: Needs Finding and Concept Creation | http://OIT384.stanford.edu | instructors:Yock, P. (PI); Brinton, T. (SI); Denend, L. (SI); Saul, G. (SI); Venook, R. (SI); Hermann, J. (TA); Jacob, M. (TA) description:In this two-quarter course series (OIT 384/5), multidisciplinary student teams from medicine, business, and engineering work together to identify real-world unmet healthcare needs, invent new health technologies to address them, and plan for their development and implementation into patient care. During the first quarter (winter 2020), students select and characterize an important unmet healthcare problem, validate it through primary interviews and secondary research, and then brainstorm and screen initial technology-based solutions. In the second quarter (spring 2020), teams screen their ideas, select a lead solution, and move it toward the market through prototyping, technical re-risking, strategies to address healthcare-specific requirements (regulation, reimbursement), and business planning. Final presentations in winter and spring are made to a panel of prominent health technology industry experts and investors. Class sessions include faculty-led instruction and case studies, coaching sessions by industry specialists, expert guest lecturers, and interactive team meetings. Enrollment is by application only, and students are expected to participate in both quarters of the course. Visit http://biodesign.stanford.edu/programs/stanford-courses/biodesign-innovation.html to access the application, examples of past projects, and student testimonials. More information about Stanford Biodesign, which has led to the creation of more than 40 venture-backed healthcare companies and has helped hundreds of students launch health technology careers, can be found at http://biodesign.stanford.edu/.
OIT385 | Biodesign Innovation: Concept Development and Implementation | http://OIT385.stanford.edu | instructors:Yock, P. (PI); Denend, L. (SI); Venook, R. (SI); Watkins, F. (SI); Herrmann, J. (TA); Jacob, M. (TA) description:In this two-quarter course series (OIT 384/5), multidisciplinary student teams from medicine, business, and engineering work together to identify real-world unmet healthcare needs, invent new health technologies to address them, and plan for their development and implementation into patient care. During the first quarter (winter 2020), students select and characterize an important unmet healthcare problem, validate it through primary interviews and secondary research, and then brainstorm and screen initial technology-based solutions. In the second quarter (spring 2020), teams screen their ideas, select a lead solution, and move it toward the market through prototyping, technical re-risking, strategies to address healthcare-specific requirements (regulation, reimbursement), and business planning. Final presentations in winter and spring are made to a panel of prominent health technology industry experts and investors. Class sessions include faculty-led instruction and case studies, coaching sessions by industry specialists, expert guest lecturers, and interactive team meetings. Enrollment is by application only, and students are expected to participate in both quarters of the course. Visit http://biodesign.stanford.edu/programs/stanford-courses/biodesign-innovation.html to access the application, examples of past projects, and student testimonials. More information about Stanford Biodesign, which has led to the creation of more than 40 venture-backed healthcare companies and has helped hundreds of students launch health technology careers, can be found at http://biodesign.stanford.edu/.
OIT521 | Data Science for Platforms | http://OIT521.stanford.edu | instructors:Weintraub, G. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:This is an MBA compressed course that covers analytic and data science tools that are currently being used to operate some of the most exciting online platforms and marketplaces in the world. This course will consist of guest lectures from industry leaders involved in these efforts, emphasizing practical challenges associated with implementing analytics and data science projects. Guest lecturers will be heads of data science, heads of product, founders, or investors, among others. We will cover online platforms and marketplaces in diverse application areas such as transportation, rentals, sharing, e-commerce, labor markets, media, and advertising.
OIT604 | Data, Learning, and Decision-Making | http://OIT604.stanford.edu | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI) description:This aim of this course is to cover modern tools for data-driven decision making. Most decision making tasks involve uncertainty that is directly impacted by the amount and complexity of data at hand. Classical decision models rely on strong distributional assumptions about the uncertain events. But in recent years, and due to growing availability of rich data, there has been a rapid adoption of models from machine learning and statistics that provide more accurate and personalized picture of uncertainty which in turn lead to better decisions. The interplay between the multiple objectives of modeling the data, personalization, and decision optimization has created a number mathematical models that the course aims to cover. Examples of topics include contextual multi-armed bandits and non-parametric decision learning.
OIT644 | Research in Operations, Information and Technology | http://OIT644.stanford.edu | instructors:Gur, Y. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Weintraub, G. (PI); Gur, Y. (SI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:This year-long course takes a hands-on approach to learning about conducting research in Operations, Information and Technology. It will cover a broad spectrum of cutting-edge research in OIT from conceiving an idea to formulating a research problem, deriving results, and publication. The topical content will be customized to the specific interests of the enrolled students, but generally will be concerned with questions of operational interest.
OIT664 | Asymptotics in Operations Management | http://OIT664.stanford.edu | instructors:Wein, L. (PI) description:This course provides an overview of asymptotic models and methods used in various areas of operations management. It includes traditional heavy traffic asymptotics for queueing networks, the Halfin-Whitt regime, the supermarket model, inventory theory, revenue management, applications of measure-valued processes in queues, and applications of mean field equilibrium models in matching markets and auctions for ad exchanges. The lectures will focus on modeling and performance analysis, and not on convergence proofs. Prerequisites: Statistics 217 and 218, or consent of instructor; some prior exposure to stochastic models in general, and queueing theory in particular, is useful but not essential.
OIT666 | Engineering Online Markets | http://OIT666.stanford.edu | instructors:Saban, D. (PI); Lumagui, S. (GP) description:This class will explore topics the intersection of operations, engineering, and economics relevant to modern internet marketplaces, including those for dating, labor, accommodation, services, and rides. The objective of the class is to introduce and revisit technical tools traditionally used in the operations literature that may help advance the research frontier, as well as to expose students to recent developments and state-of-the-art research in online markets. The class will not cover the important and heavily studied topics of stable marriage and auctions. List of topics (preliminary): Intro to two-sided platforms and search frictions in matching markets; Design of the "search environment" and information disclosure policies on platforms; Balancing supply and demand in a spatio-temporal environment; Pricing issues in platforms; Service platforms; Reputation systems.
OIT691 | PhD Directed Reading | http://OIT691.stanford.edu | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Spiess, J. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Weintraub, G. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
OIT692 | PhD Dissertation Research | http://OIT692.stanford.edu | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Spiess, J. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Weintraub, G. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
OIT698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | http://OIT698.stanford.edu | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Spiess, J. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Weintraub, G. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
OIT699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | http://OIT699.stanford.edu | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Spiess, J. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Weintraub, G. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
OIT802 | TGR Dissertation | http://OIT802.stanford.edu | instructors:Bayati, M. (PI); Bimpikis, K. (PI); Gur, Y. (PI); Iancu, D. (PI); Lee, H. (PI); Mendelson, H. (PI); Plambeck, E. (PI); Saban, D. (PI); Spiess, J. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Weintraub, G. (PI); Whang, S. (PI); Xu, K. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:
