CS101 | Introduction to Computing Principles | http://cs101.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Parlante description:Introduces the essential ideas of computing: data representation, algorithms, programming "code", computer hardware, networking, security, and social issues. Students learn how computers work and what they can do through hands-on exercises. In particular, students will see the capabilities and weaknesses of computer systems so they are not mysterious or intimidating. Course features many small programming exercises, although no prior programming experience is assumed or required. CS101 is not a complete programming course such as CS106A. CS101 is effectively an alternative to CS105. A laptop computer is recommended for the in-class exercises.
CS246H | Mining Massive Datasets Hadoop Lab | http://cs246H.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Templeton description:Supplement to CS 246 providing additional material on Hadoop. Students will learn how to implement data mining algorithms using Hadoop, how to implement and debug complex MapReduce jobs in Hadoop, and how to use some of the tools in the Hadoop ecosystem for data mining and machine learning. Topics: Hadoop, MapReduce, HDFS, combiners, secondary sort, distributed cache, SQL on Hadoop, Hive, Cloudera ML/Oryx, Mahout, Hadoop streaming, implementing Hadoop jobs, debugging Hadoop jobs, TF-IDF, Pig, Sqoop, Oozie, HBase, Impala. Prerequisite: CS 107 or equivalent.
CS231N | Convolutional Neural Networks for Visual Recognition | http://cs231N.Stanford.EDU | instructors:Li/Karpathy description:Computer Vision has become ubiquitous in our society, with applications innsearch, image understanding, apps, mapping, medicine, drones, andnself-driving cars. Core to many of these applications are the tasks of image classification, localization and detection. This course is a deep dive into details of neural network architectures with a focus on learning end-to-end models for these tasks, particularly image classification. During the 10-week course, students will learn to implement, train and debug their own neural networks and gain a detailed understanding of cutting-edge research in computer vision. The final assignment will involve training a multi-million parameter convolutional neural network and applying it on the largest image classification dataset (ImageNet). We will focus on teaching how to set up the problem of image recognition, the learning algorithms (e.g. backpropagation), practical engineering tricks for training and fine-tuning the networks and guide the students through hands-on assignments and a final course project. Much of the background and materials of this course will be drawn from the ImageNet Challenge: http://image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/2014/index. Prerequisites: Proficiency in Python; familiarity with C/C++; CS 131 and CS 229 or equivalents; Math 21 or equivalent, linear algebra.
