STATS100 | Mathematics of Sports | http://STATS100.stanford.edu | instructors: description:This course will teach you how statistics and probability can be applied in sports, in order to evaluate team and individual performance, build optimal in-game strategies and ensure fairness between participants. Topics will include examples drawn from multiple sports such as basketball, baseball, soccer, football and tennis. The course is intended to focus on data-based applications, and will involve computations in R with real data sets via tutorial sessions and homework assignments. Prereqs: No statistical or programming background is assumed, but introductory courses, e.g, Stats 60,101 or 116, are recommended. A prior knowledge of Linear Algebra (e.g., Math 51) and basic probability is strongly recommended.
STATS101 | Data Science 101 | http://STATS101.stanford.edu | instructors:Tibshirani, R. (PI); Walther, G. (PI); Markovic, J. (TA); Patterson, E. (TA) description:https://statweb.stanford.edu/~tibs/stat101.html This course will provide a hands-on introduction  to statistics and data science. Students will engage with the fundamental ideas in inferential and computational thinking. Each week, we will explore a core topic comprising three lectures and two labs (a module), in which students will manipulate real-world data and learn about statistical and computational tools. Students will engage in statistical computing and visualization with current data analytic software (Jupyter, R). The objectives of this course are to have students (1) be able to connect data to underlying phenomena and to think critically about conclusions drawn from data analysis, and (2) be knowledgeable about programming abstractions so that they can later design their own computational inferential procedures. No programming or statistical background is assumed. Freshmen and sophomores interested in data science, computing and statistics are encouraged to attend. Open to graduates as well.
STATS110 | Statistical Methods in Engineering and the Physical Sciences | http://STATS110.stanford.edu | instructors:Miolane, N. (PI); Misiakiewicz, T. (TA); Pan, Z. (TA) description:Introduction to statistics for engineers and physical scientists. Topics: descriptive statistics, probability, interval estimation, tests of hypotheses, nonparametric methods, linear regression, analysis of variance, elementary experimental design. Prerequisite: one year of calculus.
STATS110U | Statistical Methods in Engineering and the Physical Sciences | http://STATS110U.stanford.edu | instructors: description:For Summer UG Visitors only. Same as 110. This course is offered remotely only via video segments. TAs will host remote weekly office hours using an online platform such as Zoom.
STATS116 | Theory of Probability | http://STATS116.stanford.edu | instructors:Donoho, D. (PI); Kaluwa Devage, P. (PI); Wong, W. (PI); GAO, Z. (TA); Kunnasagaran, A. (TA); Tirlea, M. (TA) description:Probability spaces as models for phenomena with statistical regularity. Discrete spaces (binomial, hypergeometric, Poisson). Continuous spaces (normal, exponential) and densities. Random variables, expectation, independence, conditional probability. Introduction to the laws of large numbers and central limit theorem. Prerequisites: MATH 52 and  familiarity with infinite series, or equivalent.
STATS116U | Theory of Probability | http://STATS116U.stanford.edu | instructors:Kaluwa Devage, P. (PI) description:For Summer UG Visitors only. Same as Stats 116. This course is offered remotely only via video segments. TAs will host remote weekly office hours using an online platform such as Zoom.
STATS141 | Biostatistics | http://STATS141.stanford.edu | instructors:Holmes, S. (PI); Cheng, C. (TA); Sesia, M. (TA); Tsao, A. (TA); Tuzhilina, E. (TA); Xu, H. (TA) description:Introductory statistical methods for biological data: describing data (numerical and graphical summaries); introduction to probability; and statistical inference (hypothesis tests and confidence intervals). Intermediate statistical methods: comparing groups (analysis of variance); analyzing associations (linear and logistic regression); and methods for categorical data (contingency tables and odds ratio). Course content integrated with statistical computing in R.
STATS155 | Statistical Methods in Computational Genetics | http://STATS155.stanford.edu | instructors:Holmes, S. (PI) description:The computational methods necessary for the construction and evaluation of sequence alignments and phylogenies built from molecular data and genetic data such as micro-arrays and data base searches. How to formulate biological problems in an algorithmic decomposed form, and building blocks common to many problems such as Markovian models, multivariate analyses. Some software covered in labs (Python, Biopython, XGobi, MrBayes, HMMER, Probe). Prerequisites: knowledge of probability equivalent to STATS 116, STATS 202 and one class in computing at the CS 106 level. Writing intensive course for undergraduates only. Instructor consent required. (WIM)
STATS160 | Introduction to Statistical Methods: Precalculus | http://STATS160.stanford.edu | instructors:Cook, N. (PI); Miolane, N. (PI); Poldrack, R. (PI); Zhu, X. (PI); Bhattacharya, S. (TA); Dey, A. (TA); Lemhadri, I. (TA) description:Techniques for organizing data, computing, and interpreting measures of central tendency, variability, and association. Estimation, confidence intervals, tests of hypotheses, t-tests, correlation, and regression. Possible topics: analysis of variance and chi-square tests, computer statistical packages.
STATS191 | Introduction to Applied Statistics | http://STATS191.stanford.edu | instructors:Jeganathan, P. (PI); Jang, J. (TA); Khan, S. (TA); Seiler, B. (TA) description:Statistical tools for modern data analysis. Topics include regression and prediction, elements of the analysis of variance, bootstrap, and cross-validation. Emphasis is on conceptual rather than theoretical understanding. Applications to social/biological sciences. Student assignments/projects require use of the software package R. Prerequisite: introductory statistical methods course. Recommended: 60, 110, or 141.
STATS195 | Introduction to R | http://STATS195.stanford.edu | instructors: description:This short course runs for four weeks and is offered in fall and spring. It is recommended for students who want to use R in statistics, science or engineering courses, and for students who want to learn the basics of data science with R. The goal of the short course is to familiarize students with some of the most important R tools for data analysis. Lectures will focus on learning by example and assignments will be application-driven. No prior programming experience is assumed.
STATS196A | Multilevel Modeling Using R | http://STATS196A.stanford.edu | instructors:Rogosa, D. (PI) description:See http://rogosateaching.com/stat196/ . Multilevel data analysis examples using R. Topics include: two-level nested data, growth curve modeling, generalized linear models for counts and categorical data, nonlinear models, three-level analyses. Class meets April 8, April 15, April 22, April 29, May 13.
STATS199 | Independent Study | http://STATS199.stanford.edu | instructors:Baiocchi, M. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Efron, B. (PI); Rogosa, D. (PI); Sabatti, C. (PI); Taylor, J. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Walther, G. (PI) description:For undergraduates.
STATS200 | Introduction to Statistical Inference | http://STATS200.stanford.edu | instructors:Melnikov, O. (PI); Palacios, J. (PI); Cai, F. (TA); Fry, K. (TA); Jing, A. (TA); Ray, S. (TA); Ren, Z. (TA); Roquero Gimenez, J. (TA) description:Modern statistical concepts and procedures derived from a mathematical framework. Statistical inference, decision theory; point and interval estimation, tests of hypotheses; Neyman-Pearson theory. Bayesian analysis; maximum likelihood, large sample theory. Prerequisite: STATS 116.
STATS202 | Data Mining and Analysis | http://STATS202.stanford.edu | instructors:Walther, G. (PI); Ghosh, S. (TA); Gibbs, I. (TA); Liu, S. (TA); Rajanala, S. (TA); Wang, X. (TA); Wang, Y. (TA); Wu, H. (TA); Zhong, C. (TA) description:Data mining is used to discover patterns and relationships in data. Emphasis is on large complex data sets such as those in very large databases or through web mining. Topics: decision trees, association rules, clustering, case based methods, and data visualization. Prereqs: Introductory courses in statistics or probability (e.g., Stats 60), linear algebra (e.g., Math 51), and computer programming (e.g., CS 105).
STATS202U | Data Mining and Analysis | http://STATS202U.stanford.edu | instructors: description:For Summer UG Visitors only. Sames as Stats 202. This course is offered remotely only via video segments. TAs will host remote weekly office hours using an online platform such as Zoom.
STATS203 | Introduction to Regression Models and Analysis of Variance | http://STATS203.stanford.edu | instructors:Siegmund, D. (PI) description:Modeling and interpretation of observational and experimental data using linear and nonlinear regression methods. Model building and selection methods. Multivariable analysis. Fixed and random effects models. Experimental design. Prerequisites: a post-calculus introductory probability course, e.g. STATS 116. In addition, a co-requisite post-calculus mathematical statistics course, e.g. STATS 200, basic computer programming knowledge, and some familiarity with matrix algebra.
STATS203V | Introduction to Regression Models and Analysis of Variance | http://STATS203V.stanford.edu | instructors:Kaluwa Devage, P. (PI) description:Modeling and interpretation of observational and experimental data using linear and nonlinear regression methods. Model building and selection methods. Multivariable analysis. Fixed and random effects models. Experimental design. This course is offered remotely only via video segments (MOOC style). TAs will host remote weekly office hours using an online platform such as Zoom. Prerequisites: a post-calculus introductory probability course, e.g. STATS 116. In addition, a co-requisite post-calculus mathematical statistics course, e.g. STATS 200, basic computer programming knowledge, and some familiarity with matrix algebra.
STATS204 | Sampling | http://STATS204.stanford.edu | instructors:Basse, G. (PI) description:How best to take data and where to sample it. Examples include surveys and sampling from data warehouses. Emphasis is on methods for finite populations. Topics: simple random sampling, stratified sampling, cluster sampling, ratio and regression estimators, two stage sampling.
STATS205 | Introduction to Nonparametric Statistics | http://STATS205.stanford.edu | instructors:Ma, T. (PI); Azadkia, M. (TA); Jin, Y. (TA) description:Nonparametric regression and nonparametric density estimation, modern nonparametric techniques, nonparametric confidence interval estimates, nearest neighbor algorithms (with non-linear features), wavelet, bootstrap. Nonparametric analogs of the one- and two-sample t-tests and analysis of variance
STATS206 | Applied Multivariate Analysis | http://STATS206.stanford.edu | instructors:Hastie, T. (PI) description:Introduction to the statistical analysis of several quantitative measurements on each observational unit. Emphasis is on concepts, computer-intensive methods. Examples from economics, education, geology, psychology. Topics: multiple regression, multivariate analysis of variance, principal components, factor analysis, canonical correlations, multidimensional scaling, clustering. Pre- or corequisite: 200.
STATS207 | Introduction to Time Series Analysis | http://STATS207.stanford.edu | instructors:Rothenhaeusler, D. (PI) description:Time series models used in economics and engineering. Trend fitting, autoregressive and moving average models and spectral analysis, Kalman filtering, and state-space models. Seasonality, transformations, and introduction to financial time series. Prerequisite: basic course in Statistics at the level of 200.
STATS208 | Bootstrap, Cross-Validation, and Sample Re-use | http://STATS208.stanford.edu | instructors:Donoho, D. (PI) description:By re-using the sample data, sometimes in  ingenious ways, we can evaluate the accuracy of predictions, test the significance of a conclusion, place confidence bounds on an unknown parameter, select the best prediction architecture, and develop more accurate predictors. In this course, we will describe the many ways that samples get reused to achieve these goals, including the bootstrap, the parametric bootstrap, cross-validation, conformal prediction, random forests, and sample splitting. We also develop basic theory justifying such methods. Prerequisite: course in statistics or probability.
STATS211 | Meta-research: Appraising Research Findings, Bias, and Meta-analysis | http://STATS211.stanford.edu | instructors:Ioannidis, J. (PI); Jansen, J. (SI) description:Open to graduate, medical, and undergraduate students. Appraisal of the quality and credibility of research findings; evaluation of sources of bias. Meta-analysis as a quantitative (statistical) method for combining results of independent studies. Examples from medicine, epidemiology, genomics, ecology, social/behavioral sciences, education. Collaborative analyses. Project involving generation of a meta-research project or reworking and evaluation of an existing published meta-analysis. Prerequisite: knowledge of basic statistics.
STATS215 | Statistical Models in Biology | http://STATS215.stanford.edu | instructors:Linderman, S. (PI) description:Poisson and renewal processes, Markov chains in discrete and continuous time, branching processes, diffusion. Applications to models of nucleotide evolution, recombination, the Wright-Fisher process, coalescence, genetic mapping, sequence analysis. Theoretical material approximately the same as in STATS 217, but emphasis is on examples drawn from applications in biology, especially genetics. Prerequisite: 116 or equivalent.
STATS216 | Introduction to Statistical Learning | http://STATS216.stanford.edu | instructors:Melnikov, O. (PI) description:Overview of supervised learning, with a focus on regression and classification methods. Syllabus includes: linear and polynomial regression, logistic regression and linear discriminant analysis;cross-validation and the bootstrap, model selection and regularization methods (ridge and lasso); nonlinear models, splines and generalized additive models; tree-based methods, random forests and boosting; support-vector machines; Some unsupervised learning: principal components and clustering (k-means and hierarchical). Computing is done in R, through tutorial sessions and homework assignments. This math-light course is offered via video segments (MOOC style), and in-class problem solving sessions. Prereqs: Introductory courses in statistics or probability (e.g., Stats 60 or Stats 101), linear algebra (e.g., Math 51), and computer programming (e.g., CS 105).
STATS216V | Introduction to Statistical Learning | http://STATS216V.stanford.edu | instructors:Lemhadri, I. (PI) description:Overview of supervised learning, with a focus on regression and classification methods. Syllabus includes: linear and polynomial regression, logistic regression and linear discriminant analysis; cross-validation and the bootstrap, model selection and regularization methods (ridge and lasso); nonlinear models, splines and generalized additive models; tree-based methods, random forests and boosting; support-vector machines; Some unsupervised learning: principal components and clustering (k-means and hierarchical). Computing is done in R, through tutorial sessions and homework assignments. This math-light course is offered remotely only via video segments (MOOC style). TAs will host remote weekly office hours using an online platform such as Zoom. There are four homework assignments, a midterm, and a final exam, all of which are administered remotely. Prereqs: Introductory courses in statistics or probability (e.g., Stats 60 or Stats 101), linear algebra (e.g., Math 51), and computer programming (e.g., CS 105).
STATS217 | Introduction to Stochastic Processes I | http://STATS217.stanford.edu | instructors:Cook, N. (PI); D'Aristotile, A. (PI) description:Discrete and continuous time Markov chains, poisson processes, random walks, branching processes, first passage times, recurrence and transience, stationary distributions. Non-Statistics masters students may want to consider taking STATS 215 instead. Prerequisite: a post-calculus introductory probability course e.g. STATS 116
STATS218 | Introduction to Stochastic Processes II | http://STATS218.stanford.edu | instructors:Chatterjee, S. (PI) description:Renewal theory, Brownian motion, Gaussian processes, second order processes, martingales.
STATS219 | Stochastic Processes | http://STATS219.stanford.edu | instructors:Dembo, A. (PI) description:Introduction to measure theory, Lp spaces and Hilbert spaces. Random variables, expectation, conditional expectation, conditional distribution. Uniform integrability, almost sure and Lp convergence. Stochastic processes: definition, stationarity, sample path continuity. Examples: random walk, Markov chains, Gaussian processes, Poisson processes, Martingales. Construction and basic properties of Brownian motion. Prerequisite: STATS 116 or MATH 151 or equivalent. Recommended: MATH 115 or equivalent. http://statweb.stanford.edu/~adembo/math-136/
STATS221 | Random Processes on Graphs and Lattices | http://STATS221.stanford.edu | instructors:Dembo, A. (PI) description:Covering modern topics in the study of random processes on graphs and lattices. Specifically, a subset of: Random walks, electrical networks and flows. Uniform spanning trees. Percolation and self-avoiding walks. Contact process, voter model and the exclusion process. Ising, Potts, and Random-Cluster model. Random graphs. Prerequisites: MATH 115 (or equivalent), STAT 217 (or equivalent).
STATS229 | Machine Learning | http://STATS229.stanford.edu | instructors:Charikar, M. (PI); Ma, T. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Re, C. (PI) description:Topics: statistical pattern recognition, linear and non-linear regression, non-parametric methods, exponential family, GLMs, support vector machines, kernel methods, deep learning, model/feature selection, learning theory, ML advice, clustering, density estimation, EM, dimensionality reduction, ICA, PCA, reinforcement learning and adaptive control, Markov decision processes, approximate dynamic programming, and policy search. Prerequisites: linear algebra, and basic probability and statistics.
STATS237 | Investment Portfolios, Derivative Securities, and Risk Measures | http://STATS237.stanford.edu | instructors:Tsang, K. (PI) description:Asset returns and their volatilities. Markowitz portfolio theory, capital asset pricing model, multifactor pricing models. Measures of market risk and statistical models and methods for their estimation and backtesting. Financial derivatives and hedging. Black-Scholes pricing of European options and implied volatilities.  Prerequisite: STATS 116 or equivalent.
STATS237P | Investment Portfolios, Derivative Securities, and Risk Measures | http://STATS237P.stanford.edu | instructors:Tsang, K. (PI) description:For SCPD students; see STATS237
STATS240 | Statistical Methods in Finance | http://STATS240.stanford.edu | instructors:Lai, T. (PI); Sklar, M. (TA); YAN, J. (TA) description:(SCPD students register for 240P.) Regression analysis and applications to investment models. Principal components and multivariate analysis. Likelihood inference and Bayesian methods. Financial time series. Estimation and modeling of volatilities. Statistical methods for portfolio management. Prerequisite: STATS 200 or equivalent.
STATS240P | Statistical Methods in Finance | http://STATS240P.stanford.edu | instructors:Lai, T. (PI); Sklar, M. (TA); YAN, J. (TA) description:For SCPD students; see 240.
STATS241 | Data-driven Financial Econometrics | http://STATS241.stanford.edu | instructors:Lai, T. (PI) description:(SCPD students register for 241P) Substantive and empirical modeling approaches in options, interest rate, and credit markets. Nonlinear least squares, logistic regression and generalized linear models. Nonparametric regression and model selection. Multivariate time series modeling and forecasting. Vector autoregressive models and cointegration. Risk measures, models and analytics. Prerequisite or corequisite: STATS 240 or equivalent.
STATS241P | Data-driven Financial Econometrics | http://STATS241P.stanford.edu | instructors:Lai, T. (PI) description:For SCPD students; see STATS241.
STATS242 | NeuroTech Training Seminar | http://STATS242.stanford.edu | instructors:Chichilnisky, E. (PI); Kleeman, E. (SI) description:This is a required course for students in the NeuroTech training program, and is also open to other graduate students interested in learning the skills necessary for neurotechnology careers in academia or industry. Over the academic year, topics will include: emerging research in neurotechnology, communication skills, team science, leadership and management, intellectual property, entrepreneurship and more.To request approval to register, please visit http://bit.ly/nsur239-fall2019.
STATS245 | Data, Models and Applications to Healthcare Analytics | http://STATS245.stanford.edu | instructors:Choi, A. (PI) description:Topics on fundamentals of data science, biological and statistical models, application to medical product safety evaluation, health risk models and their evaluation, benefit-risk assessment and multi-criteria decision analytics. Applications to environmental health, nutritional epidemiology, wellness and prevention will also be discussed. Prerequisite: Graduate students - STATS 202 or 216, or CS 229; Undergraduate students - consent of instructor.
STATS245P | Data, Models, and Applications to Healthcare Analytics | http://STATS245P.stanford.edu | instructors:Choi, A. (PI) description:For SCPD students; see STATS245.
STATS249 | Experimental Immersion in Neuroscience | http://STATS249.stanford.edu | instructors:Kleeman, E. (PI); Keller, A. (TA) description:This course provides students from technical backgrounds (e.g., physics, applied physics, electrical or chemical engineering, bioengineering, computer science, statistics) the opportunity to learn how they can apply their expertise to advancing experimental research in the neurosciences. Students will visit one neuroscience lab per week to watch experiments, understand the technical apparatus and animal models being used, discuss the questions being addressed, and interact with students and others conducting the research. This course is strongly encouraged for students who wish to apply to the NeuroTech graduate training program.
STATS250 | Mathematical Finance | http://STATS250.stanford.edu | instructors:Papanicolaou, G. (PI) description:Stochastic models of financial markets. Forward and futures contracts. European options and equivalent martingale measures. Hedging strategies and management of risk. Term structure models and interest rate derivatives. Optimal stopping and American options. Corequisites: MATH 236 and 227 or equivalent.
STATS260A | Workshop in Biostatistics | http://STATS260A.stanford.edu | instructors:Palacios, J. (PI); Sabatti, C. (PI) description:Applications of statistical techniques to current problems in medical science. To receive credit for one or two units, a student must attend every workshop. To receive two units, in addition to attending every workshop, the student is required to write an acceptable one page summary of two of the workshops, with choices made by the student.
STATS260B | Workshop in Biostatistics | http://STATS260B.stanford.edu | instructors:Sabatti, C. (PI); Zou, J. (PI) description:Applications of statistical techniques to current problems in medical science. To receive credit for one or two units, a student must attend every workshop. To receive two units, in addition to attending every workshop, the student is required to write an acceptable one page summary of two of the workshops, with choices made by the student.
STATS260C | Workshop in Biostatistics | http://STATS260C.stanford.edu | instructors:Rivas, M. (PI); Sabatti, C. (PI) description:Applications of statistical techniques to current problems in medical science. To receive credit for one or two units, a student must attend every workshop. To receive two units, in addition to attending every workshop, the student is required to write an acceptable one page summary of two of the workshops, with choices made by the student.
STATS261 | Intermediate Biostatistics: Analysis of Discrete Data | http://STATS261.stanford.edu | instructors:Sainani, K. (PI) description:Methods for analyzing data from case-control and cross-sectional studies: the 2x2 table, chi-square test, Fisher's exact test, odds ratios, Mantel-Haenzel methods, stratification, tests for matched data, logistic regression, conditional logistic regression. Emphasis is on data analysis in SAS. Special topics: cross-fold validation and bootstrap inference.
STATS262 | Intermediate Biostatistics: Regression, Prediction, Survival Analysis | http://STATS262.stanford.edu | instructors:Sainani, K. (PI) description:Methods for analyzing longitudinal data. Topics include Kaplan-Meier methods, Cox regression, hazard ratios, time-dependent variables, longitudinal data structures, profile plots, missing data, modeling change, MANOVA, repeated-measures ANOVA, GEE, and mixed models. Emphasis is on practical applications. Prerequisites: basic ANOVA and linear regression.
STATS264 | Foundations of Statistical and Scientific Inference | http://STATS264.stanford.edu | instructors:Goodman, S. (PI) description:The course will consist of readings and discussion of foundational papers and book sections in the domains of statistical and scientific inference. Topics to be covered include philosophy of science, interpretations of probability, Bayesian and frequentist approaches to statistical inference and current controversies about the proper use of p-values and research reproducibility. nnRecommended preparation: At least 2 quarters of biostatistics and one of epidemiology. Intended for second year Masters students, of PhD students with as least 1 year of preceding graduate training.
STATS266 | Advanced Statistical Methods for Observational Studies | http://STATS266.stanford.edu | instructors:Baiocchi, M. (PI); Rogosa, D. (PI) description:Design principles and statistical methods for observational studies. Topics include: matching methods, sensitivity analysis, and instrumental variables. 3 unit registration requires a small project and presentation. Computing is in R. Pre-requisites: HRP 261 and 262 or STATS 209 (HRP 239), or equivalent. See http://rogosateaching.com/somgen290/
STATS270 | A Course in Bayesian Statistics | http://STATS270.stanford.edu | instructors:Wong, W. (PI) description:This course will treat Bayesian statistics at a relatively advanced level. Assuming familiarity with standard probability and multivariate distribution theory, we will provide a discussion of the mathematical and theoretical foundation for Bayesian inferential procedures. In particular, we will examine the construction of priors and the asymptotic properties of likelihoods and posterior distributions. The discussion will include but will not be limited to the case of finite dimensional parameter space.  There will also be some discussions on the computational algorithms useful for Bayesian inference.
STATS271 | Applied Bayesian Statistics | http://STATS271.stanford.edu | instructors:Zhu, X. (PI) description:This course is a modern treatment of applied Bayesian statistics with a focus on high-dimensional problems. We will study a collection of canonical methods that see heavy use in applications, including high-dimensional linear and generalized linear models, hierarchical/random effects models, Gaussian processes, variable-dimension and Dirichlet process mixtures, graphical models, and methods used in Bayesian inverse problems. Each method will be accompanied by one or more motivating datasets. Through these examples the course will cover: (1) Bayesian hypothesis testing, multiplicity correction, selection, shrinkage, and model averaging; (2) prior choice; (3) Frequentist properties of Bayesian procedures in high dimensions; and (4) computation by Markov chain Monte Carlo, including constructing efficient Gibbs, Metropolis, and more exotic samplers, empirical convergence analysis, strategies for scaling computation to high dimensions (approximations, divide-and-conquer, minibatching, et cetera), and the theory of convergence rates.
STATS285 | Massive Computational Experiments, Painlessly | http://STATS285.stanford.edu | instructors:Donoho, D. (PI) description:Ambitious Data Science requires massive computational experimentation; the entry ticket for a solid PhD in some fields is now to conduct experiments involving 1 Million CPU hours. Recently several groups have created efficient computational environments that make it painless to run such massive experiments. This course reviews state-of-the-art practices for doing massive computational experiments on compute clusters in a painless and reproducible manner. Students will learn how to automate their computing experiments first of all using nuts-and-bolts tools such as Perl and Bash, and later using available comprehensive frameworks such as ClusterJob and CodaLab, which enables them to take on ambitious Data Science projects. The course also features few guest lectures by renowned scientists in the field of Data Science. Students should have a familiarity with computational experiments and be facile in some high-level computer language such as R, Matlab, or Python.
STATS290 | Computing for Data Science | http://STATS290.stanford.edu | instructors:Chambers, J. (PI); Narasimhan, B. (PI) description:Programming and computing techniques for the requirements of data science: acquisition and organization of data; visualization, modelling and inference for scientific applications; presentation and interactive communication of results. Emphasis on computing for substantial projects. Software development with emphasis on R, plus other key software tools. Prerequisites: Programming experience including familiarity with R; computing at least at the level of CS 106; statistics at the level of STATS 110 or 141.
STATS298 | Industrial Research for Statisticians | http://STATS298.stanford.edu | instructors:Ioannidis, J. (PI); Lai, T. (PI); Rothenhaeusler, D. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Walther, G. (PI) description:Masters-level research as in 299, but with the approval and supervision of a faculty adviser, it must be conducted for an off-campus employer. Students must submit a written final report upon completion of the internship in order to receive credit. Repeatable for credit. Prerequisite: enrollment in Statistics M.S. program.
STATS299 | Independent Study | http://STATS299.stanford.edu | instructors:Baiocchi, M. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Efron, B. (PI); Ioannidis, J. (PI); Lai, T. (PI); Rogosa, D. (PI); Rothenhaeusler, D. (PI); Sabatti, C. (PI); Taylor, J. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Walther, G. (PI) description:For Statistics M.S. students only. Reading or research program under the supervision of a Statistics faculty member. May be repeated for credit.
STATS300A | Theory of Statistics I | http://STATS300A.stanford.edu | instructors:Rothenhaeusler, D. (PI); Celentano, M. (TA); Feldman, M. (TA); Guo, K. (TA) description:Finite sample optimality of statistical procedures; Decision theory: loss, risk, admissibility; Principles of data reduction: sufficiency, ancillarity, completeness; Statistical models: exponential families, group families, nonparametric families; Point estimation: optimal unbiased and equivariant estimation, Bayes estimation, minimax estimation; Hypothesis testing and confidence intervals: uniformly most powerful tests, uniformly most accurate confidence intervals, optimal unbiased and invariant tests. Prerequisites: Real analysis, introductory probability (at the level of STATS 116), and introductory statistics.
STATS300B | Theory of Statistics II | http://STATS300B.stanford.edu | instructors:Diaconis, P. (PI) description:Elementary decision theory; loss and risk functions, Bayes estimation; UMVU estimator, minimax estimators, shrinkage estimators. Hypothesis testing and confidence intervals: Neyman-Pearson theory; UMP tests and uniformly most accurate confidence intervals; use of unbiasedness and invariance to eliminate nuisance parameters. Large sample theory: basic convergence concepts; robustness; efficiency; contiguity, locally asymptotically normal experiments; convolution theorem; asymptotically UMP and maximin tests. Asymptotic theory of likelihood ratio and score tests. Rank permutation and randomization tests; jackknife, bootstrap, subsampling and other resampling methods. Further topics: sequential analysis, optimal experimental design, empirical processes with applications to statistics, Edgeworth expansions, density estimation, time series.
STATS300C | Theory of Statistics III | http://STATS300C.stanford.edu | instructors:Romano, J. (PI) description:Decision theory formulation of statistical problems. Minimax, admissible procedures. Complete class theorems ("all" minimax or admissible procedures are "Bayes"), Bayes procedures, conjugate priors, hierarchical models. Bayesian non parametrics: diaichlet, tail free, polya trees, bayesian sieves. Inconsistency of bayes rules.
STATS302 | Qualifying Exams Workshop | http://STATS302.stanford.edu | instructors:Bates, S. (PI); Cao, S. (PI); Ren, Z. (PI) description:Prepares Statistics Ph.D. students for the qualifying exams by reviewing relevant course topics and problem solving strategies.
STATS303 | PhD First/Second Year Student Workshop | http://STATS303.stanford.edu | instructors:Owen, A. (PI) description:For Statistics first and second year PhD students only.  Discussion of statistics topics and research areas; consultation with PhD advisors.
STATS305A | Applied Statistics I | http://STATS305A.stanford.edu | instructors:Owen, A. (PI); Donnat, C. (TA); Friedberg, R. (TA); Kluger, D. (TA); Sohn, Y. (TA) description:Statistics of real valued responses. Review of multivariate normal distribution theory. Univariate regression. Multiple regression. Constructing features from predictors. Geometry and algebra of least squares: subspaces, projections, normal equations, orthogonality, rank deficiency, Gauss-Markov. Gram-Schmidt, the QR decomposition and the SVD. Interpreting coefficients. Collinearity. Dependence and heteroscedasticity. Fits and the hat matrix. Model diagnostics. Model selection, Cp/AIC and crossvalidation, stepwise, lasso. Multiple comparisons. ANOVA, fixed and random effects. Use of bootstrap and permutations. Emphasis on problem sets involving substantive computations with data sets. Prerequisites: consent of instructor, 116, 200, applied statistics course, CS 106A, MATH 114. (NB: prior to 2016-17 the 305ABC series was numbered as 305, 306A and 306B).
STATS305B | Applied Statistics II | http://STATS305B.stanford.edu | instructors:Taylor, J. (PI) description:Methods for discrete responses. Logistic regression. Poisson loglinear models. Probit model. Generalized linear models. Exponential families. Overdispersion. Tests of independence. Cox proportional hazards model. Bradley-Terry models. Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel. Matched pairs. Generalized linear mixed models. Problem sets involve working with real data sets. Additional topics selected by the instructor. Prerequisites: 305A or consent of the instructor. (NB: prior to 2016-17 the 305ABC series was numbered as 305, 306A and 306B).
STATS305C | Applied Statistics III | http://STATS305C.stanford.edu | instructors:Holmes, S. (PI) description:Methods for multivariate responses. Theory, computation and practice for multivariate statistical tools. Multivariate Gaussian and undirected graphical models, graphical displays. Hotelling¿s T-squared, principal components, canonical correlations, linear discriminant analysis, correspondence analysis, and recent variants of these. Hierarchical and k-means clustering. Bi-clustering. Factor analysis and independent component analysis. Topic modeling. Multidimensional scaling and variants (e.g., Isomap, spectral clustering, t-SNE). Matrix completion. Extensive work with data involving programming ¿ ideally in R. nPrerequisites: Stats 305A and Stats 305B or consent of the instructor. (NB: prior to 2016-17 the 305ABC series was numbered as 305, 306A and 306B).
STATS310A | Theory of Probability I | http://STATS310A.stanford.edu | instructors:Montanari, A. (PI); Cao, S. (TA); Pavlyshyn, D. (TA); Wu, Y. (TA) description:Mathematical tools: sigma algebras, measure theory, connections between coin tossing and Lebesgue measure, basic convergence theorems. Probability: independence, Borel-Cantelli lemmas, almost sure and Lp convergence, weak and strong laws of large numbers. Large deviations. Weak convergence; central limit theorems; Poisson convergence; Stein's method. Prerequisites: STATS 116, MATH 171.
STATS310B | Theory of Probability II | http://STATS310B.stanford.edu | instructors:Dembo, A. (PI) description:Conditional expectations, discrete time martingales, stopping times, uniform integrability, applications to 0-1 laws, Radon-Nikodym Theorem, ruin problems, etc. Other topics as time allows selected from (i) local limit theorems, (ii) renewal theory, (iii) discrete time Markov chains, (iv) random walk theory,n(v) ergodic theory. Prerequisite: 310A or MATH 230A.
STATS310C | Theory of Probability III | http://STATS310C.stanford.edu | instructors:Chatterjee, S. (PI) description:Continuous time stochastic processes: martingales, Brownian motion, stationary independent increments, Markov jump processes and Gaussian processes. Invariance principle, random walks, LIL and functional CLT. Markov and strong Markov property. Infinitely divisible laws. Some ergodic theory. Prerequisite: 310B or MATH 230B. http://statweb.stanford.edu/~adembo/stat-310c/
STATS314A | Advanced Statistical Theory | http://STATS314A.stanford.edu | instructors:Lai, T. (PI) description:Covers a range of topics, including: empirical processes, asymptotic efficiency, uniform convergence of measures, contiguity, resampling methods, Edgeworth expansions.
STATS315A | Modern Applied Statistics: Learning | http://STATS315A.stanford.edu | instructors:Hastie, T. (PI) description:Overview of supervised learning. Linear regression and related methods. Model selection, least angle regression and the lasso, stepwise methods. Classification. Linear discriminant analysis, logistic regression, and support vector machines (SVMs).  Basis expansions, splines and regularization. Kernel methods. Generalized additive models. Kernel smoothing. Gaussian mixtures and the EM algorithm. Model assessment and selection: crossvalidation and the bootstrap. Pathwise coordinate descent. Sparse graphical models. Prerequisites: STATS 305, 306A,B or consent of instructor.
STATS315B | Modern Applied Statistics: Data Mining | http://STATS315B.stanford.edu | instructors:Friedman, J. (PI) description:Two-part sequence. New techniques for predictive and descriptive learning using ideas that bridge gaps among statistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence. Emphasis is on statistical aspects of their application and integration with more standard statistical methodology. Predictive learning refers to estimating models from data with the goal of predicting future outcomes, in particular, regression and classification models. Descriptive learning is used to discover general patterns and relationships in data without a predictive goal, viewed from a statistical perspective as computer automated exploratory analysis of large complex data sets.
STATS317 | Stochastic Processes | http://STATS317.stanford.edu | instructors:Siegmund, D. (PI) description:Semimartingales, stochastic integration, Ito's formula, Girsanov's theorem. Gaussian and related processes. Stationary/isotropic processes. Integral geometry and geometric probability. Maxima of random fields and applications to spatial statistics and imaging.
STATS318 | Modern Markov Chains | http://STATS318.stanford.edu | instructors:Candes, E. (PI) description:Tools for understanding Markov chains as they arise in applications. Random walk on graphs, reversible Markov chains, Metropolis algorithm, Gibbs sampler, hybrid Monte Carlo, auxiliary variables, hit and run, Swedson-Wong algorithms, geometric theory, Poincare-Nash-Cheger-Log-Sobolov inequalities. Comparison techniques, coupling, stationary times, Harris recurrence, central limit theorems, and large deviations.
STATS319 | Literature of Statistics | http://STATS319.stanford.edu | instructors:Donoho, D. (PI); Sabatti, C. (PI); Siegmund, D. (PI) description:Literature study of topics in statistics and probability culminating in oral and written reports. May be repeated for credit.
STATS32 | Introduction to R for Undergraduates | http://STATS32.stanford.edu | instructors:Tay, J. (PI) description:This short course runs for weeks one through five of the quarter. It is recommended for undergraduate students who want to use R in the humanities or social sciences and for students who want to learn the basics of R programming. The goal of the short course is to familiarize students with R's tools for data analysis. Lectures will be interactive with a focus on learning by example, and assignments will be application-driven. No prior programming experience is needed. Topics covered include basic data structures, File I/O, data transformation and visualization, simple statistical tests, etc, and some useful packages in R. Prerequisite: undergraduate student. Priority given to non-engineering students. Laptops necessary for use in class.
STATS322 | Function Estimation in White Noise | http://STATS322.stanford.edu | instructors:Johnstone, I. (PI); Cauchois, M. (TA) description:Gaussian white noise model sequence space form. Hyperrectangles, quadratic convexity, and Pinsker's theorem. Minimax estimation on Lp balls and Besov spaces. Role of wavelets and unconditional bases. Linear and threshold estimators. Oracle inequalities. Optimal recovery and universal thresholding. Stein's unbiased risk estimator and threshold choice. Complexity penalized model selection. Connecting fast wavelet algorithms and theory. Beyond orthogonal bases.
STATS345 | Statistical and Machine Learning Methods for Genomics | http://STATS345.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Introduction to statistical and computational methods for genomics. Sample topics include: expectation maximization, hidden Markov model, Markov chain Monte Carlo, ensemble learning, probabilistic graphical models, kernel methods and other modern machine learning paradigms. Rationales and techniques illustrated with existing implementations used in population genetics, disease association, and functional regulatory genomics studies. Instruction includes lectures and discussion of readings from primary literature.  Homework and projects require implementing some of the algorithms and using existing toolkits for analysis of genomic datasets.
STATS361 | Causal Inference | http://STATS361.stanford.edu | instructors:Wager, S. (PI) description:This course covers statistical underpinnings of causal inference, with a focus on experimental design and data-driven decision making. Topics include randomization, potential outcomes, observational studies, propensity score methods, matching, double robustness, semiparametric efficiency, treatment heterogeneity, structural models, instrumental variables, principal stratification, mediation, regression discontinuities, synthetic controls, interference, sensitivity analysis, policy learning, dynamic treatment rules, invariant prediction, graphical models, and structure learning. We will also discuss the relevance of optimization and machine learning tools to causal inference. Prerequisite: STATS 300A, or equivalent graduate-level coursework on the theory of statistics.
STATS362 | Topic: Monte Carlo | http://STATS362.stanford.edu | instructors:Owen, A. (PI) description:Random numbers and vectors: inversion, acceptance-rejection, copulas. Variance reduction: antithetics, stratification, control variates, importance sampling. MCMC: Markov chains, detailed balance, Metropolis-Hastings, random walk Metropolis,nnindependence sampler, Gibbs sampling, slice sampler, hybrids of Gibbs and Metropolis, tempering. Sequential Monte Carlo. Quasi-Monte Carlo. Randomized quasi-Monte Carlo. Examples, problems and motivation from Bayesian statistics,nnmachine learning, computational finance and graphics. May be repeat for credit.
STATS364 | Theory and Applications of Selective Inference | http://STATS364.stanford.edu | instructors:Taylor, J. (PI) description:This course focuses on the problem of inference under the presence of multiplicity or selection. Topics covered include classical topics multiple comparisons (FWER, FDR, FCR) as well as newer methods such as knockoffs. We will also cover inference when targeted parameters are determined only after inspection of the data, considering both conditional and simultaneous approaches. Both theoretical and computational considerations will be stressed nthroughout the course. Prerequisite: STATS 200 or equivalent
STATS366 | Modern Statistics for Modern Biology | http://STATS366.stanford.edu | instructors:Holmes, S. (PI); Ignatiadis, N. (TA) description:Application based course in nonparametric statistics. Modern toolbox of visualization and statistical methods for the analysis of data, examples drawn from immunology, microbiology, cancer research and ecology. Methods covered include multivariate methods (PCA and extensions), sparse representations (trees, networks, contingency tables) as well as nonparametric testing (Bootstrap, permutation and Monte Carlo methods). Hands on, use R and cover many Bioconductor packages.  Prerequisite: Minimal familiarity with computers.
STATS370 | A Course in Bayesian Statistics | http://STATS370.stanford.edu | instructors:Wong, W. (PI) description:This course will treat Bayesian statistics at a relatively advanced level. Assuming familiarity with standard probability and multivariate distribution theory, we will provide a discussion of the mathematical and theoretical foundation for Bayesian inferential procedures. In particular, we will examine the construction of priors and the asymptotic properties of likelihoods and posterior distributions. The discussion will include but will not be limited to the case of finite dimensional parameter space.  There will also be some discussions on the computational algorithms useful for Bayesian inference.
STATS371 | Applied Bayesian Statistics | http://STATS371.stanford.edu | instructors:Zhu, X. (PI) description:This course is a modern treatment of applied Bayesian statistics with a focus on high-dimensional problems. We will study a collection of canonical methods that see heavy use in applications, including high-dimensional linear and generalized linear models, hierarchical/random effects models, Gaussian processes, variable-dimension and Dirichlet process mixtures, graphical models, and methods used in Bayesian inverse problems. Each method will be accompanied by one or more motivating datasets. Through these examples the course will cover: (1) Bayesian hypothesis testing, multiplicity correction, selection, shrinkage, and model averaging; (2) prior choice; (3) Frequentist properties of Bayesian procedures in high dimensions; and (4) computation by Markov chain Monte Carlo, including constructing efficient Gibbs, Metropolis, and more exotic samplers, empirical convergence analysis, strategies for scaling computation to high dimensions (approximations, divide-and-conquer, minibatching, et cetera), and the theory of convergence rates.
STATS376A | Information Theory | http://STATS376A.stanford.edu | instructors:Weissman, T. (PI) description:(Formerly EE 376A.) Project-based course about how to measure, represent, and communicate information effectively. Why bits have become the universal currency for information exchange. How information theory bears on the design and operation of modern-day systems such as smartphones and the Internet. The role of entropy and mutual information in data compression, communication, and inference. Practical compressors and error correcting codes. The information theoretic way of thinking. Relations and applications to probability, statistics, machine learning, biological and artificial neural networks, genomics, quantum information, and blockchains. Prerequisite: a first undergraduate course in probability.
STATS385 | Analyses of Deep Learning | http://STATS385.stanford.edu | instructors:Donoho, D. (PI) description:Deep learning is a transformative technology that has delivered impressive improvements in image classification and speech recognition. Many researchers are trying to better understand how to improve prediction performance and also how to improve training methods. Some researchers use experimental techniques; others use theoretical approaches. In this course we will review both experimental and theoretical analyses of deep learning.  We will have 8-10 guest lecturers as well as graded projects for those who take the course for credit.
STATS390 | Consulting Workshop | http://STATS390.stanford.edu | instructors:Bates, S. (PI); Donoho, D. (PI); Siegmund, D. (PI); Switzer, P. (PI) description:Skills required of practicing statistical consultants, including exposure to statistical applications. Students participate as consultants in the department's drop-in consulting service, analyze client data, and prepare formal written reports. Seminar provides supervised experience in short term consulting. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: course work in applied statistics or data analysis, and consent of instructor.
STATS397 | PhD Oral Exam Workshop | http://STATS397.stanford.edu | instructors: description:For Statistics PhD students defending their dissertation.
STATS398 | Industrial Research for Statisticians | http://STATS398.stanford.edu | instructors:Candes, E. (PI); Dembo, A. (PI); Diaconis, P. (PI); Donoho, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Efron, B. (PI); Friedman, J. (PI); Hastie, T. (PI); Holmes, S. (PI); Johnstone, I. (PI); Lai, T. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Owen, A. (PI); Rajaratnam, B. (PI); Romano, J. (PI); Siegmund, D. (PI); Switzer, P. (PI); Taylor, J. (PI); Tibshirani, R. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Walther, G. (PI); Wong, W. (PI) description:Doctoral research as in 399, but must be conducted for an off-campus employer. A final report acceptable to the advisor outlining work activity, problems investigated, key results, and any follow-up projects they expect to perform is required. The report is due at the end of the quarter in which the course is taken. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: Statistics Ph.D. candidate.
STATS399 | Research | http://STATS399.stanford.edu | instructors:Baiocchi, M. (PI); Candes, E. (PI); Chatterjee, S. (PI); Dembo, A. (PI); Diaconis, P. (PI); Donoho, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Efron, B. (PI); Friedman, J. (PI); Hastie, T. (PI); Holmes, S. (PI); Johnstone, I. (PI); Lai, T. (PI); Liang, P. (PI); Linderman, S. (PI); Mackey, L. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Mukherjee, R. (PI); Narasimhan, B. (PI); Owen, A. (PI); Palacios, J. (PI); Rajaratnam, B. (PI); Rogosa, D. (PI); Romano, J. (PI); Sabatti, C. (PI); Siegmund, D. (PI); Switzer, P. (PI); Taylor, J. (PI); Tibshirani, R. (PI); Wager, S. (PI); Walther, G. (PI); Wong, W. (PI) description:Research work as distinguished from independent study of nonresearch character listed in 199. May be repeated for credit.
STATS48N | Riding the Data Wave | http://STATS48N.stanford.edu | instructors:Sabatti, C. (PI); Zhao, Q. (TA) description:Imagine collecting a bit of your saliva and sending it in to one of the personalized genomics company: for very little money you will get back information about hundreds of thousands of variable sites in your genome. Records of exposure to a variety of chemicals in the areas you have lived are only a few clicks away on the web; as are thousands of studies and informal reports on the effects of different diets, to which you can compare your own. What does this all mean for you? Never before in history humans have recorded so much information about themselves and the world that surrounds them. Nor has this data been so readily available to the lay person. Expression as "data deluge'' are used to describe such wealth as well as the loss of proper bearings that it often generates.  How to summarize all this information in a useful way? How to boil down millions of numbers to just a meaningful few? How to convey the gist of the story in a picture without misleading oversimplifications? To answer these questions we need to consider the use of the data, appreciate the diversity that they represent, and understand how people instinctively interpret numbers and pictures. During each week, we will consider a different data set  to be summarized with a different goal. We will review analysis of similar problems carried out in the past and explore if and how the same tools can be useful today. We will pay attention to contemporary media (newspapers, blogs, etc.) to identify settings similar to the ones we are examining and critique the displays and summaries there documented. Taking an experimental approach, we will evaluate the effectiveness of different data summaries in conveying the desired information by testing them on subsets of the enrolled students.
STATS60 | Introduction to Statistical Methods: Precalculus | http://STATS60.stanford.edu | instructors:Cook, N. (PI); Miolane, N. (PI); Poldrack, R. (PI); Zhu, X. (PI); Bhattacharya, S. (TA); Dey, A. (TA); Lemhadri, I. (TA) description:Techniques for organizing data, computing, and interpreting measures of central tendency, variability, and association. Estimation, confidence intervals, tests of hypotheses, t-tests, correlation, and regression. Possible topics: analysis of variance and chi-square tests, computer statistical packages.
STATS801 | TGR Project | http://STATS801.stanford.edu | instructors:Candes, E. (PI); Chatterjee, S. (PI); Dembo, A. (PI); Diaconis, P. (PI); Donoho, D. (PI); Efron, B. (PI); Friedman, J. (PI); Hastie, T. (PI); Holmes, S. (PI); Johnstone, I. (PI); Lai, T. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Owen, A. (PI); Rajaratnam, B. (PI); Rogosa, D. (PI); Romano, J. (PI); Siegmund, D. (PI); Switzer, P. (PI); Taylor, J. (PI); Tibshirani, R. (PI); Walther, G. (PI); Wong, W. (PI) description:
STATS802 | TGR Dissertation | http://STATS802.stanford.edu | instructors:Candes, E. (PI); Chatterjee, S. (PI); Dembo, A. (PI); Diaconis, P. (PI); Donoho, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Efron, B. (PI); Friedman, J. (PI); Hastie, T. (PI); Holmes, S. (PI); Johnstone, I. (PI); Lai, T. (PI); Liang, P. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Owen, A. (PI); Rogosa, D. (PI); Romano, J. (PI); Sabatti, C. (PI); Siegmund, D. (PI); Switzer, P. (PI); Taylor, J. (PI); Tian, L. (PI); Tibshirani, R. (PI); Walther, G. (PI); Wong, W. (PI) description:
