PE100 | Sailing, Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE100 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI); Vas Dias, T. (SI) description:Students will have the opportunity to refine their sailing skills Students will also be introduced to racing. This class utilization of class discussions, assignments and student participation will enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscle endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE102 | Coaching Corps | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE102 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI) description:This course is designed to build practical and educational foundations to prepare students to be instructional leaders (coaches) in sports activities.  Students will have the opportunity to make a valuable contribution to youth while developing practical coaching skills. The course will explore topics including practice planning and designing curriculum, how to effectively engage youth in sports, youth development through sports, social issues facing urban youth in sports, the plight of sports programs in urban centers, and how to create a college-going culture among youth in low-income communities. Students will coach off campus at local schools/community-based organizations that offer after school sports programs.
PE103 | Route Setting: Designing the Indoor Climbing Experience | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE103 | instructors:De Torres, A. (PI) description:The Route Setting course is intended for those with extensive climbing experience who are interested in learning to design climbing routes for indoor climbing walls.  The course will introduce students to route setting philosophies centered around the user experience, route setting operations, route evaluation, and setting guidelines and techniques for designing specific grades, specific movements and achieving equitability for various climber heights.
PE104 | PCIA: Climbing Wall Instructor | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE104 | instructors:Hopper, K. (PI); Sandlin, P. (PI) description:The Professional Climbing Instructors Association (PCIA) Climbing Wall Instructor Course provides instructors and potential instructors with an in depth and standardized understanding of the skills essential to teaching climbing in an indoor setting. The course reinforces the importance of teaching technically accurate information and debunks many common climbing myths.  The course emphasizes the presentation of sound fundamental skills to climbing gym participants, the formation of risk assessment and risk management skills and basic problem solving skills such as belay transitions and on wall coaching and assist techniques. Participants will be assessed on both their core knowledge and their ability to effectively teach and coach related skills.  Students will have the option to certify with the Professional Climbing Instructors Association.nnPrerequisites: Rock Climbing 2 (Intermediate) or equivalent, The candidate must show an adequate experience level to the course provider illustrating that he/she is ready for the course. Examples include periodic climbing for 2 ¿ 3 years, a high intensity of climbing in the past few months, etc.; Able to easily put on harness and tie in appropriately; Able to belay with an aperture belay device and an assisted locking device in competent, comfortable and confident manner; Possess the personal equipment necessary for the course; Capable of comfortably top roping 5.8 on an artificial climbing wall.
PE128 | Swimming: Beginning I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE128 | instructors:Lonaker, S. (PI) description:This class is for first time swimmers and for individuals who have fear, anxiety or discomfort in water. This class is also designed for individuals who have previously taken beginning swim courses and have had little/no success or who struggle to move through water. A foundation of basic balance and movement skills will be developed through a series of fundamental water exercises. When safety or balance in the water is in question, so is the ability to move, and to some extent, the ability to breathe comfortably.  As comfort and balance improves, the easier it is to accept breathing and movement skills. The goal is for a swimmer to become comfortable and in control in both shallow and deep water. The fundamental skills learned in this course will provide a foundation for learning stroke technique, such as freestyle, in an effortless manner. nPrerequisites: None
PE129 | Swimming: Beginning II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE129 | instructors:Lonaker, S. (PI) description:In this class you will learn how to relax in the water, breath effectively, float and tread, swim 3 different strokes (freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke), jump in the water from the deck, use swimming equipment (kickboards, pull buoys, fins) and swim across a 25 year pool.  nIf you have fear or anxiety in the water, consider taking the ATH 128 Confidence in Water class.  If you can swim across a 25 yard pool, you should take the ATH 131 Intermediate Swim class.nPrereq: non-swimmer, unable to swim across a 25 yard pool.nGoals:  Learn to be safe and relaxed in shallow and deep water.  Develop ease and efficiency with breathing & swimming strokes.  Be safe and comfortable swimming 25 yards continuously.  FEE. (AU).
PE131 | Swimming: Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE131 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI); Lonaker, S. (PI) description:This class is for those who can swim across a 50-yard pool.  In this class you will learn how to: breathe effectively, tread water, dive in from the edge and use swimming equipment (kick boards, pull buoys, hand paddles, fins).  You will be introduced to and gain further development of the 4 competitive swimming strokes (Freestyle, Backstroke, Breaststroke & Butterfly).  An introduction to flipturns and intervals (50 yard repeats) will be taught.  Underwater videotaping and stroke review and analysis will occur.  nPrereq:  Ability to swim across a 50-yard pool continuously.  You MUST be comfortable in deep water, if you are uncomfortable in deep water please take ATH 129 Swimming Beginning.
PE132 | Swimming: Advanced | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE132 | instructors:Lonaker, S. (PI) description:This class is for those who can swim 100 yards freestyle continuously and have had an introduction to backstroke and breaststroke.  In this class you will learn: refinement of the 4 competitive swimming strokes: freestyle, breaststroke, backstroke, butterfly (review/intro) and efficient breathing techniques.  You will gain additional development of flipturns using intervals (100 yard repeats), competitive starts and turns, use of swimming equipment (kick boards, pull buoys, hand paddles, fins) for fitness, and videotaping with review.  nPrereq:  Swim 100 yards continuous of freestyle. If you have not had an introduction to Breaststroke or backstroke, we recommend you take ATH 131 Swimming Intermediate.
PE138 | Table Tennis: Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE138 | instructors:Sarsfield, T. (PI); Shodhan, S. (PI) description:This class is intended for players who have experience playing table-tennis including those who have taken the beginning table-tennis class. Students should have prior experience in countering, looping, chopping, and serving.
PE139 | TABLE TENNIS: BEGINNING | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE139 | instructors:Sarsfield, T. (PI) description:Basic counters, topspins, and chops with both the forehand and backhand. Serve and return, emphasizing game situations and match play. All equipment provided. Fee.
PE144 | Tennis: Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE144 | instructors:Sarsfield, T. (PI); Thornton, M. (PI) description:Students will learn and develop the essential stroke techniques with emphasis on control.  This course will also incorporate rules, etiquette, and basic play. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE145 | Tennis: Advanced Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE145 | instructors:Sarsfield, T. (PI); Thornton, M. (PI) description:Students will review and strengthen stroke techniques with emphasis on control, depth, and direction.  This course will also incorporate rules, etiquette, and basic strategy and tactics. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle. Prerequisites: 144, or knowledge of rules and scoring and average ability in fundamental strokes but limited playing experience. Fee. (AU)
PE146 | Tennis: Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE146 | instructors:Sarsfield, T. (PI); Thornton, M. (PI) description:Students will review and strengthen stroke techniques with more emphasis on depth, direction, and spin. This course will also incorporate basic to advance strategies and tactics with performance enhancing cooperative and competitive drills. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.nPrerequisites:145 or average ability in fundamental strokes, and regular playing experience; NTRP rating of 3.0 -3.5 . (AU)
PE147 | Tennis: Advanced | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE147 | instructors:Sarsfield, T. (PI); Thornton, M. (PI) description:Students will refine stroke techniques with more emphasis on spin, power, and variety.  This course will also incorporate advance strategies and tactics with performance enhancing competitive drills. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.nPrerequisite: NTRP rating above 4.0 or equivalent. (AU)
PE151 | Total Body Training | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE151 | instructors:Conniff, N. (PI); Mandell, M. (PI); Petrosian, T. (PI) description:Students will learn a variety of exercises that focuses on the body as a whole. This class allows you to move, stretch and strengthen the entire body. A variety of equipment will be used to target all major muscle groups. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness such as: cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE161 | Volleyball: Beginning Sand | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE161 | instructors:Shaw, D. (PI) description:This course is designed to help students gain proficient skills and knowledge of the game of sand volleyball. This is an introductory course for those with limited or no playing experience. Instruction will include techniques for passing, setting, serving, serve receive, hitting, blocking, digging, and transition. The course is arranged to familiarize students with the rules, terminology, offensive and defensive strategies, team organization, communication, game play, and conditioning for volleyball. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE17 | Cardio Dance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE17 | instructors:Mark, M. (PI) description:Cardio Dance combines traditional aerobic routines with dance-based choreography.  This course will focus on understanding the basic components of cardiovascular fitness, and flexibility. This course will teach students how to properly warm-up, cool-down, stretch and  monitor heart rate as you engage in various styles of dance week to week: swing, salsa, hip-hop, modern, African and Jazz. No experience necessary; just a love of both movement and upbeat music.
PE173 | Weight Training: Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE173 | instructors:Petrosian, T. (PI) description:This course will allow students to expand upon skills learned in Beginning Weight Training. Students will learn to design and develop a balanced weight training program to meet their goals. This course also provides an opportunity to develop skills in specific areas of strength training, endurance, and power. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness such as: muscular strength and endurance, power, and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE174 | Weight Training: Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE174 | instructors:Petrosian, T. (PI) description:This course is designed to teach the fundamentals of weight training, including equipment use, exercise technique and safety procedures. By the end of the course, students should be able to safely demonstrate a variety of exercise techniques, as well as have a general appreciation for the benefits of strength training. Fee. (AU)
PE175 | Muscle Works | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE175 | instructors:O'Connell, M. (PI) description:Functional Training teaches you how to move your body optimally, improve balance, build strength, and prevent injury.  Class sessions incorporate a variety of exercises that work on flexibility, core, balance, strength and power, focusing on multiple movement planes.  Whether your goal is to train your body to perform the activities of daily life effortlessly and without injury, improve your athletic edge, or regain lost function, this class gives you the tools to achieve these goals.  All fitness levels are welcome.
PE176 | Weight Training for Women | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE176 | instructors:Petrosian, T. (PI) description:This course is designed to teach the fundamentals of weight training, including equipment use, exercise technique, proper stretching, safety procedures and injury prevention. The basics of the physiology of strength training and planning individual programs. Fee. (AU)
PE177 | Circuit Training | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE177 | instructors:Petrosian, T. (PI) description:This class will focus on full-body conditioning workouts, combining resistance training and high-intensity aerobics. This challenging class provides a great workout as you move through a series of stations designed to elevate your heart rate and challenge your muscles. Stations may include body weight exercises, weights, resistant bands, stability balls, treadmills, etc. Class may be modified for all levels of fitness. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness (2) Develop physical fitness skills and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE180 | Yoga for Stress Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE180 | instructors:Merlo, A. (PI); Mitchell, Y. (PI) description:Students will have the opportunity to learn ancient yoga/health practices for managing daily stressors. Students will learn to identify signs and symptoms of stress, how anxiety manifests in the body and mind, and yoga techniques for relief. The focus will be on breathing techniques to calm the nervous system and practicing mindfulness. Hatha, or physical yoga, will also be introduced as preliminary practices to balance the body, relax the breath, stretch and tone muscles, and massage internal organ systems. All practices are meant to provide students new options for gaining inner strength and self-control. This course will utilize class instruction, assignments, and student participation to enable students to: (1) Acquire knowledge of the basic health-related components of physical fitness and the different dimensions of wellness. (2) Develop the skill-related components of fitness, and (3) Understand and practice the behaviors that contribute to a healthy lifestyle.
PE181 | YOGA: Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE181 | instructors:Mitchell, Y. (PI) description:Students will be introduced to the values and skills of Hatha Yoga (Yoga of exercise). Students will learn how to reduce tension, increase energy levels, move efficiently, reconnect to self-awareness, and learn about the body.  The poses and flows are adaptable and can be personalized for any level of fitness.  The emphasis of the class will be on asanas (poses) and vinyasa (flow) for increased flexibility, improved health, relaxation, and reduced stress in daily living. Students will also be exposed to the language, philosophy, history, and concepts of Yoga.  A typical class will include breathing techniques, meditation and asana practice, including standing, balancing, stretching and some inverted poses. At the end of the quarter students will have: (1) Acquired knowledge of the basic components of health and wellness. (2) Developed physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) A positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE183 | Yoga: Advanced | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE183 | instructors: description:Advanced Yoga is for students who already possess a solid and ongoing yoga practice.  This course will move deeper into all aspects of yoga by exploring more advanced postures, pranayama and meditation techniques. This course is designed for students who wish to challenge themselves both physically and mentally.
PE185 | Yoga: Intermediate Asana | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE185 | instructors:Mitchell, Y. (PI) description:This course is designed for students who already possess an ongoing yoga practice. This course will move deeper into all aspects of yoga by exploring more postures, pranayama and meditation techniques. This course is designed for students who wish to improve themselves both physically and mentally. Intermediate yoga will provide students with information and experience which will enable students to: (1) Acquire knowledge of the basic components of health and wellness. (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE187 | Power Yoga | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE187 | instructors:Mitchell, Y. (PI) description:Power yoga combines dynamic breathing and flowing sequences of asanas that focus on strengthening the entire body.  Core muscle activation and stabilization is emphasized to ensure safe body mechanics. Power yoga will provide students with information and practical experience that will enable students to: (1) Acquire knowledge of the basic components of health and wellness. (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity, which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE193 | Fitness for Life | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE193 | instructors:Mitchell, Y. (PI) description:This course teaches students how to stay active by engaging in a variety of workouts (indoor cycling, interval training, weight training, walking/jogging, etc.). This course utilizes a variety of workout equipment to target all major muscle groups. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE20 | Barre Fusion | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE20 | instructors:Agostino, K. (PI); Lillie, T. (PI) description:This course is a mix of Barre exercises, Pilates exercises, Yoga poses and stretching specifically designed to increase strength and muscle tone in the entire  body and overall flexibility.  We focus on proper alignment and improving posture.  The exercises are intense and effective yet extremely accessible. This course will also utilize class instruction, assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Acquire knowledge of the basic components of health and wellness. (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE23 | Core Training | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE23 | instructors:Conniff, N. (PI); Mandell, M. (PI); Mark, M. (PI); Petrosian, T. (PI) description:This course is designed to help students improve their ability to stabilize the torso. A strong core is an essential component for performance in any sport, hobby and for life. Your posture will improve enabling you to breathe more deeply. You will move with the ease and grace that comes from finding balance the fulcrum of your body. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness such as muscle strength and endurance (2) Develop physical fitness skills and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE27 | Cross Training Fitness | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE27 | instructors: description:Cross training fitness class will focus on combining different types of exercises to work the body as a whole to develop cardiovascular fitness, strength and power.  All fitness levels are welcome.  Class sessions will include exercises such as:  indoor cycling, plyometrics, rowing, jump rope, circuit training, and various other exercises.
PE3 | Jogging For Fitness | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE3 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI); Tapia, B. (PI) description:This course will focus on understanding the basic components of cardiovascular fitness, and flexibility. This will be achieved by teaching students how to prepare, train and pace themselves throughout a variety of workouts such as jogging and interval training. Students will gain knowledge to make intelligent choices that contribute to a healthy active lifestyle.
PE30 | Indoor Cycling | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE30 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI) description:This course is designed to teach students basic concepts associated with indoor cycling as well as build cardio-respiratory endurance, muscular strength, and flexibility through structured individually paced indoor cycling workouts. Instructors motivate participants through intervals, hill climbs and coasts for the ultimate workout. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE32 | Boot Camp | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE32 | instructors:Breen, L. (PI) description:This course will focus on understanding the basic components of health-related physical fitness (cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance, and flexibility).  Students will have the opportunity to engage in a variety of physical activities, which will enhance all aspects of health-related fitness.  This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness (2) Develop physical fitness skills and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle. May be repeated for credit
PE33 | Diving | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE33 | instructors:Jeffrey, P. (PI) description:Basic techniques and mechanics of springboard and platform diving. Five basic categories of dives will be introduced: front, back, inward, reverse and twist. Competitive aspects of diving.  Fee.
PE4 | Walking for Fitness | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE4 | instructors: description:This course will focus on understanding the basic components of cardiovascular fitness, and flexibility. This will be achieved by teaching students how to monitor heart rate, record steps, prepare, train and pace themselves throughout a variety of walking workouts. Students will gain knowledge to make intelligent choices that contribute to a healthy active lifestyle.
PE5 | Fundamentals of TRX | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE5 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI); Petrosian, T. (PI); Tapia, B. (PI) description:Students will learn a variety of exercises that focuses on total body resistance exercise. This class allows you to move, stretch and strengthen the entire body.  Exercising on the TRX utilizes gravity and movement to generate neuromuscular responses to changes in body position and mechanical advantage. Movements using the TRX integrate strength and balance into a single dynamic format that taxes the nervous system at a high level and maximizes the benefits of bodyweight exercise for faster results. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness such as: cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE51 | Golf: Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE51 | instructors:Ho, A. (PI); Marrone, P. (PI); Miller, J. (PI); Thornton, M. (PI); Uchiyama, K. (PI) description:This course is designed to teach the fundamentals of the golf swing; putting, chipping, and sand play. We will also cover golf etiquette and rules. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of skill-related and health-related physical fitness, (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE52 | Golf: Advanced Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE52 | instructors:Ho, A. (PI); Marrone, P. (PI); Miller, J. (PI); Thornton, M. (PI) description:This course allows students to further development their golf swing and short game. This course will also review golf concepts, rules and etiquette. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of skill-related and health-related physical fitness, (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.nnPrerequisite: PE 51 or golf experience.
PE53 | Golf: Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE53 | instructors:Ho, A. (PI); Marrone, P. (PI); Miller, J. (PI); Uchiyama, K. (PI) description:This course allows students to further development their golf game by engaging in various golf drills and the opportunity to practice on all facets of golf. Students will learn how to lower scores and manage the game on the course. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of skill-related and health-related physical fitness, (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.nPrerequisite: 52 or equivalent. Fee. (AU)
PE54 | Golf: Advanced | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE54 | instructors:Marrone, P. (PI) description:This course is designed to refine the golf swing and increase power, distance, and accuracy. This course will also cover topics such as: course management, mental preparation and visualization techniques. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of skill-related and health-related physical fitness, (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.nPrerequisite: PE 53 or experience playing and practicing, and the ability to hit shots with relative accuracy and distance.Fee. (AU)
PE65 | Horsemanship: Beginning Riding | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE65 | instructors:Brown, A. (PI); Lillie, T. (PI); Brown, A. (SI) description:This course explores beginning riding. Topics include, but are not limited to, basic horse care, equitation at the walk/trot and negotiation of simple obstacles. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation.nNo experience needed.  Fee. (AU)
PE70 | Horsemanship | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE70 | instructors:Brown, A. (PI); Lillie, T. (PI); Brown, A. (SI) description:This course explores the basics of horsemanship and provides the necessary foundation for beginning riding. Topics include, but are not limited to, general horse care, handling techniques, horse health and disease, and stable management. This is an un-mounted course.  This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation.nNo experience needed. Fee.
PE76 | Kickboxing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE76 | instructors: description:This high energy class focuses on upper and lower body kickboxing combinations for the ultimate cardio and muscular endurance workout. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness such as: cardiovascular fitness, muscular strength and endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE8 | Badminton: Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE8 | instructors:Thornton, M. (PI) description:This course is designed to teach the basic skills necessary to play the game of badminton.  Fitness and training principles will be discussed as well as singles and doubles strategy. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of skill-related and health-related physical fitness (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE80 | Lifeguard Training | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE80 | instructors:Gable, M. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI) description:This course allows students to learn lifeguard characteristics and responsibilities, recognize hazards and emergencies, patron and facility surveillance, interaction with the public, and rescue skills. Students will also learn first aid and CPR/AED for the Professional Rescuer. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation, both in and out of water, to prepare students to become lifeguards.nnPrereq:  300 yard continuous swim with rhythmic breathing (100 yards of freestyle, 100 yards of breaststroke, and 100 yards of combination of the two); Swim 20 yards, surface dive 7ft, retrieve a 10lb diving brick, and return in one minute and forty seconds.
PE81 | Beginning Stand Up Paddleboarding | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE81 | instructors:McCabe, K. (PI) description:This course teaches students the basic skills, strokes, maneuvers and water safety skills of Stand Up Paddleboarding in a calm, flat-water setting.  nnPrerequisites: None
PE9 | Badminton: Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE9 | instructors:Thornton, M. (PI) description:TThis course will introduce the student to more advanced skills and strategies of the game of badminton.  Emphasis will be placed on conditioning, shot selection, court positioning, and singles and doubles play. This course will utilize class discussions, class assignments and student participation to enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of skill-related and health-related physical fitness (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE90 | Essentials of Pilates | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE90 | instructors:Conniff, N. (PI); Mitchell, Y. (PI) description:Students will focus on developing core strength, flexibility, and awareness by engaging in a variety of exercises that integrate the principles of Pilates.  This course will utilize class instruction, assignments, and student participation to enable students to:  (1) Acquire knowledge of the basic health-related components of physical fitness and the different dimensions of wellness.  (2) Develop the skill-related components of fitness, and (3) Understand and practice the behaviors that contribute to a healthy lifestyle. May be repeat for credit.
PE91 | Pilates Mat: Intermediate / Advanced | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE91 | instructors: description:Students will focus on developing core strength, flexibility, and awareness by engaging in a variety of exercises that integrate the principles of Pilates.  This course will utilize class instruction, assignments, and student participation to enable students to:  (1) Acquire knowledge of the basic health-related components of physical fitness and the different dimensions of wellness.  (2) Develop the skill-related components of fitness, and (3) Understand and practice the behaviors that contribute to a healthy lifestyle.
PE92 | Rock Climbing I: Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE92 | instructors:De Torres, A. (PI) description:This course is an introductory course. Students will learn skills necessary to get started exploring the world of indoor climbing.  These skills include technical safety skills for bouldering and top-roped climbing, essential physical and mental skills, and strategies for training.  Students will be taught with industry standard best practices in regards to safety, and provided with a multi-disciplinary approach to overall health and wellness.  No experience necessary.
PE93 | Rock Climbing II: Intermediate | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE93 | instructors:De Torres, A. (PI) description:In this course students will have the opportunity to build upon basic principles associated with rock climbing.  Student will further explore variations in climbing efficiency techniques, crack climbing techniques, and training methodologies to enhance their climbing experience and help prevent injuries.  Students will be taught with industry standard best practices in regards to safety, and provided with a multi-disciplinary approach to overall health and wellness.nPrerequisites:  Rock Climbing 1 or at least 3 months previous climbing experience, current top-rope belay certification at the Stanford Climbing Wall
PE94 | Rock Climbing III: Lead Climbing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE94 | instructors:Sandlin, P. (PI) description:This course is for the more advanced climber looking to learn to lead climb and increase their climbing fitness.  Students will be exposed to technical and safety skills pertaining to sport lead climbing.  Additional climbing specific training principles will be introduced to assist in improving climbing fitness and preventing common overuse injuries.  Students will be taught with industry standard best practices in regards to safety, and provided with a multi-disciplinary approach to overall health and wellness.  Once students demonstrate proficiency, they will have the opportunity to become lead certified at the Stanford Climbing Wall.
PE95 | Rock Climbing: Strength and Conditioning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE95 | instructors:Sandlin, P. (PI) description:The course will provide students with a framework to develop a balanced strength and conditioning program specific to training for bouldering and sport climbing.  Topics addressed will include mobility training, sport specific strength and conditioning, and injury prevention.nPrerequisites:  Rock Climbing 1 or at least 3 months previous climbing experience, current top-rope belay certification at the Stanford Climbing Wall
PE96 | Bouldering for Fitness | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE96 | instructors:Sandlin, P. (PI) description:This is a mixed level course open to new and experienced climbers.  This course will provide an introduction to bouldering (climbing at a low height without ropes) as a fitness activity.  Students will learn a variety of sport specific exercises to increase mobility and performance while reducing the likelihood of injury.  Students will be taught with industry standard best practices in regards to safety, and provided with a multi-disciplinary approach to overall health and wellness.  No experience necessary.
PE98 | Sailing, Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE98 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI); Vas Dias, T. (PI); Vas Dias, T. (SI) description:Students will learn skills, theories, and techniques to enable beginners to sail with confidence in small centerboard boats. This class utilization of class discussions, assignments and student participation will enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscle endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
PE99 | Sailing, Advanced Beginning | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PE99 | instructors:Lillie, T. (PI); Vas Dias, T. (PI); Vas Dias, T. (SI) description:Students will have the opportunity to further development their sailing skills and techniques. This class utilization of class discussions, assignments and student participation will enable students to: (1) Understand basic components of health-related physical fitness, cardiovascular fitness, muscle endurance and flexibility (2) Develop physical fitness and motor skills, and (3) Develop a positive attitude toward wellness and physical activity which will facilitate a healthy lifestyle.
