8.01 | Physics I (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-01-physics-i-fall-2003 | textbook:Young, Hugh, Lewis Ford and Roger Freedman. University Physics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Stanley Kowalski term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Physics I is a first-year physics course which introduces students to classical mechanics. Topics include: space and time; straight-line kinematics; motion in a plane; forces and equilibrium; experimental basis of Newton's laws; particle dynamics; universal gravitation; collisions and conservation laws; work and potential energy; vibrational motion; conservative forces; inertial forces and non-inertial frames; central force motions; rigid bodies and rotational dynamics.
8.012 | Physics I: Classical Mechanics (Fall 2008) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-012-physics-i-classical-mechanics-fall-2008 | textbook:Kleppner, Daniel, and Robert J. Kolenkow. An Introduction to Mechanics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1973. level:Undergraduate instructors:Adam Burgasser term:Fall 2008 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This class is an introduction to classical mechanics for students who are comfortable with calculus. The main topics are: Vectors, Kinematics, Forces, Motion, Momentum, Energy, Angular Motion, Angular Momentum, Gravity, Planetary Motion, Moving Frames, and the Motion of Rigid Bodies.
8.01L | Physics I: Classical Mechanics (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-01l-physics-i-classical-mechanics-fall-2005 | textbook:Young, Hugh D., and Roger A. Freedman. University Physics. 11th edition, Volume 1, with Mastering Physics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. George Stephans term:Fall 2005 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:8.01L is an introductory mechanics course, which covers all the topics covered in 8.01T. The class meets throughout the fall, and continues throughout the Independent Activities Period (IAP).
8.01T | Physics I (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-01t-physics-i-fall-2004 | textbook:The table below provides information on the course's lecture (L) and exams (E) sessions. "YF" indicates readings from the textbook:  Young, Hugh D., and Roger A. Freedman. University Physics with Modern Physics. 11th ed. San Francisco, CA: Addison Wesley, July 25, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Bernd Surrow,  J. David Litster, Dr. Peter Dourmashkin,  David E. Pritchard term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This freshman-level course is an introduction to classical mechanics. The subject is taught using the TEAL (Technology Enabled Active Learning) format which features small group interaction via table-top experiments utilizing laptops for data acquisition and problem solving workshops. Acknowledgements The TEAL project is supported by The Alex and Brit d'Arbeloff Fund for Excellence in MIT Education, MIT iCampus, the Davis Educational Foundation, the National Science Foundation, the Class of 1960 Endowment for Innovation in Education, the Class of 1951 Fund for Excellence in Education, the Class of 1955 Fund for Excellence in Teaching, and the Helena Foundation.
8.01X | Physics I: Classical Mechanics with an Experimental Focus | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-01x-physics-i-classical-mechanics-with-an-experimental-focus-fall-2002 | textbook:Besides the course syllabi and notes, and instructions for 12 basic constructions and experiments (Dourmashkin and King), there is a complete collection of 50 experiments (King, J. G., and A. P. French. Physics 8.01X and 8.02X Experiment Instructions. MIT Physics Department, 1998) that have been used at various times. Finally, there was a published book, ZAP!, designed to be used in conjunction with a version of these introductory physics courses taught at Caltech. Although out of print, the earlier (longer) version of ZAP! is still available from KT Associates (207.442.9064, benkt@gwi.net): King, J. G., and Philip & Phylis Morrison. ZAP! A Hands-on Introduction to Electricity and Magnetism. Preliminary ed. MIT Physics Department, 1991. textbook:Young, H. D., and R. A. Freedman. University Physics. 10th ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1999. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kate Scholberg, Dr. Peter Dourmashkin term:Fall 2002 features:Exams and solutions description:Physics I is a first-year physics course which introduces students to classical mechanics. This course has a hands-on focus, and approaches mechanics through take-home experiments. Topics include: kinematics, Newton's laws of motion, universal gravitation, statics, conservation laws, energy, work, momentum, and special relativity.
8.02 | Physics II: Electricity and Magnetism (Spring 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-02-physics-ii-electricity-and-magnetism-spring-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Physics Department Faculty, Lecturers, and Technical Staff term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This freshman-level course is the second semester of introductory physics. The focus is on electricity and magnetism. The subject is taught using the TEAL (Technology Enabled Active Learning) format which utilizes small group interaction and current technology. The TEAL/Studio Project at MIT is a new approach to physics education designed to help students develop much better intuition about, and conceptual models of, physical phenomena.   Staff List  Visualizations: Prof. John Belcher Instructors: Dr. Peter Dourmashkin Prof. Bruce Knuteson Prof. Gunther Roland Prof. Bolek Wyslouch Dr. Brian Wecht Prof. Eric Katsavounidis Prof. Robert Simcoe Prof. Joseph Formaggio  Course Co-Administrators: Dr. Peter Dourmashkin Prof. Robert Redwine Technical Instructors: Andy Neely Matthew Strafuss Course Material: Dr. Peter Dourmashkin Prof. Eric Hudson Dr. Sen-Ben Liao Acknowledgements The TEAL project is supported by The Alex and Brit d'Arbeloff Fund for Excellence in MIT Education, MIT iCampus, the Davis Educational Foundation, the National Science Foundation, the Class of 1960 Endowment for Innovation in Education, the Class of 1951 Fund for Excellence in Education, the Class of 1955 Fund for Excellence in Teaching, and the Helena Foundation. Many people have contributed to the development of the course materials. (PDF)
8.022 | Physics II: Electricity and Magnetism (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-022-physics-ii-electricity-and-magnetism-fall-2006 | textbook:Griffiths, David J. Introduction to Electrodynamics. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Purcell, Edward M. "Electricity and Magnetism." In Berkeley Physics Course. 2nd ed. Vol. 2. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1984. textbook:Feynman, Richard P., Robert B. Leighton, and Matthew Sands. The Feynman Lectures on Physics. 2nd ed. Vol. 2. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:Michael Shaw term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course runs parallel to 8.02, but assumes that students have some knowledge of vector calculus. The class introduces Maxwell's equations, in both differential and integral form, along with electrostatic and magnetic vector potential, and the properties of dielectrics and magnetic materials. This class was taught by an undergraduate in the Experimental Study Group (ESG). Student instructors are paired with ESG faculty members, who advise and oversee the students' teaching efforts.
8.022 | Physics II: Electricity and Magnetism (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-022-physics-ii-electricity-and-magnetism-fall-2004 | textbook:The readings in "Purcell" refer to the course textbook:  Purcell, E. M. Electricity and Magnetism. Berkeley Physics Course. Vol. 2. 2nd ed.  New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Science/Engineering/Math, August 1, 1984. level:Undergraduate instructors:Gabriella Sciolla term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Course 8.022 is one of several second-term freshman physics courses offered at MIT. It is geared towards students who are looking for a thorough and challenging introduction to electricity and magnetism. Topics covered include: Electric and magnetic field and potential; introduction to special relativity; Maxwell's equations, in both differential and integral form; and properties of dielectrics and magnetic materials. In addition to the theoretical subject matter, several experiments in electricity and magnetism are performed by the students in the laboratory. Acknowledgments Prof. Sciolla would like to acknowledge the contributions of MIT Professors Scott Hughes and Peter Fisher to the development of this course. She would also like to acknowledge that these course materials include contributions from past instructors, textbooks, and other members of the MIT Physics Department affiliated with course 8.022. Since the following works have evolved over a period of many years, no single source can be attributed.
8.022 | Physics II: Electricity and Magnetism (Fall 2002) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-022-physics-ii-electricity-and-magnetism-fall-2002 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Erik Katsavounidis,  Peter Fisher term:Fall 2002 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:Parallel to 8.02: Physics II, but more advanced mathematically. Some knowledge of vector calculus assumed. Maxwell's equations, in both differential and integral form. Electrostatic and magnetic vector potential. Properties of dielectrics and magnetic materials. In addition to the theoretical subject matter, several experiments in electricity and magnetism are performed by the students in the laboratory.
8.02T | Electricity and Magnetism | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-02t-electricity-and-magnetism-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Bruce Knuteson,  Eric Hudson, Dr. George Stephans,  John Belcher,  John Joannopoulos,  Michael Feld, Dr. Peter Dourmashkin term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This freshman-level course is the second semester of introductory physics. The focus is on electricity and magnetism. The subject is taught using the TEAL (Technology Enabled Active Learning) format which utilizes small group interaction and current technology. The TEAL/Studio Project at MIT is a new approach to physics education designed to help students develop much better intuition about, and conceptual models of, physical phenomena. Acknowledgements The TEAL project is supported by The Alex and Brit d'Arbeloff Fund for Excellence in MIT Education, MIT iCampus, the Davis Educational Foundation, the National Science Foundation, the Class of 1960 Endowment for Innovation in Education, the Class of 1951 Fund for Excellence in Education, the Class of 1955 Fund for Excellence in Teaching, and the Helena Foundation. Many people have contributed to the development of the course materials. (PDF)
8.02X | Physics II: Electricity & Magnetism with an Experimental Focus | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-02x-physics-ii-electricity-magnetism-with-an-experimental-focus-spring-2005 | textbook:Besides the course syllabi and notes, and instructions for 12 basic constructions and experiments (Dourmashkin and King), there is a complete collection of 50 experiments (King, J. G., and A. P. French. Physics 8.01X and 8.02X Experiment Instructions. MIT Physics Department, 1998) that have been used at various times. Finally, there was a published book, ZAP!, designed to be used in conjunction with a version of these introductory physics courses taught at Caltech. Although out of print, the earlier (longer) version of ZAP! is still available from KT Associates (207.442.9064, benkt@gwi.net): King, J. G., and Philip and Phylis Morrison. ZAP! A Hands-on Introduction to Electricity and Magnetism. Preliminary ed. MIT Physics Department, 1991. textbook:Young and Freedman. University Physics with Modern Physics. 11th ed. San Francisco, CA: Pearson/Addison Wesley, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Gunther M. Roland, Dr. Peter Dourmashkin term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course is an introduction to electromagnetism and electrostatics. Topics include: electric charge, Coulomb's law, electric structure of matter, conductors and dielectrics, concepts of electrostatic field and potential, electrostatic energy, electric currents, magnetic fields, Ampere's law, magnetic materials, time-varying fields, Faraday's law of induction, basic electric circuits, electromagnetic waves, and Maxwell's equations. The course has an experimental focus, and includes several experiments that are intended to illustrate the concepts being studied. Acknowledgements Prof. Roland wishes to acknowledge that the structure and content of this course owe much to the contributions of Prof. Ambrogio Fasoli.
8.03 | Physics III | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-03-physics-iii-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Nergis Mavalvala,  Thomas Greytak term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:Mechanical vibrations and waves, simple harmonic motion, superposition, forced vibrations and resonance, coupled oscillations and normal modes, vibrations of continuous systems, reflection and refraction, phase and group velocity. Optics, wave solutions to Maxwell's equations, polarization, Snell's law, interference, Huygens's principle, Fraunhofer diffraction, and gratings.
8.033 | Relativity | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-033-relativity-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Max Tegmark term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course, which concentrates on special relativity, is normally taken by physics majors in their sophomore year. Topics include Einstein's postulates, the Lorentz transformation, relativistic effects and paradoxes, and applications involving electromagnetism and particle physics. This course also provides a brief introduction to some concepts of general relativity, including the principle of equivalence, the Schwartzschild metric and black holes, and the FRW metric and cosmology.
8.04 | Quantum Physics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-04-quantum-physics-i-spring-2013 | textbook:[E&R] =  Eisberg, Robert M., and Robert Resnick. Quantum Physics of Atoms, Molecules, Solids, Nuclei, and Particles. Wiley, 1985. textbook:[Li.] =  Liboff, Richard L. Introductory Quantum Mechanics. Addison Wesley, 2002. textbook:[Ga.] =  Gasiorowicz, Stephen. Quantum Physics. John Wiley & Sons, 2003. textbook:[Sh.] =  Shankar, Ramamurti. Principles of Quantum Mechanics. Springer, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Allan Adams,  Matthew Evans,  Barton Zwiebach term:Spring 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers the experimental basis of quantum physics. It introduces wave mechanics, Schrödinger's equation in a single dimension, and Schrödinger's equation in three dimensions.It is the first course in the undergraduate Quantum Physics sequence, followed by 8.05 Quantum Physics II and 8.06 Quantum Physics III.&nbsp;
8.044 | Statistical Physics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-044-statistical-physics-i-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Thomas Greytak term:Spring 2013 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course offers an introduction to probability, statistical mechanics, and thermodynamics. Numerous examples are used to illustrate a wide variety of physical phenomena such as magnetism, polyatomic gases, thermal radiation, electrons in solids, and noise in electronic devices.This course is an elective subject in MIT&rsquo;s undergraduate Energy Studies Minor. This Institute-wide program complements the deep expertise obtained in any major with a broad understanding of the interlinked realms of science, technology, and social sciences as they relate to energy and associated environmental challenges.
8.05 | Quantum Physics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-05-quantum-physics-ii-fall-2013 | textbook:[Griffiths] =  Griffiths, David J. Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Pearson Prentice Hall, 2004. textbook:[Shankar] =  Shankar, Ramamurti. Principles of Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Plenum Press, 1994. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude. Quantum Mechanics. 2 vols. Wiley, 2006. textbook:Feynman, R. P. Feynman Lectures On Physics. Vol. 3. Addison Wesley Longman, 1970. textbook:[Ohanian] =  Ohanian, Hans. Principles of Quantum Mechanics. Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Sakurai, J. J. Modern Quantum Mechanics. Addison-Wesley Pub., 1993. textbook:Axler, Sheldon. Linear Algebra Done Right. 2nd ed. Springer, 1997. level:Undergraduate instructors:Barton Zwiebach term:Fall 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:Together, this course and 8.06 Quantum Physics III cover quantum physics with applications drawn from modern physics. Topics covered in this course include the general formalism of quantum mechanics, harmonic oscillator, quantum mechanics in three-dimensions, angular momentum, spin, and addition of angular momentum.
8.06 | Quantum Physics III | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-06-quantum-physics-iii-spring-2005 | textbook:Griffiths, David J. Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2004. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude. Quantum Mechanics. 2 vols. New York, NY: Wiley, 1977. textbook:Sakurai, J. J. Modern Quantum Mechanics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Pub., 1994. textbook:Shankar, Ramamurti. Principles of Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1994. level:Undergraduate instructors:Krishna Rajagopal term:Spring 2005 features:Projects (no examples) description:Together, this course and its predecessor, 8.05: Quantum Physics II, cover quantum physics with applications drawn from modern physics. Topics in this course include units, time-independent approximation methods, the structure of one- and two-electron atoms, charged particles in a magnetic field, scattering, and time-dependent perturbation theory. In this second term, students are required to research and write a paper on a topic related to the content of 8.05 and 8.06.
8.07 | Electromagnetism II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-07-electromagnetism-ii-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Alan Guth,  Min Chen term:Fall 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course is the second in a series on Electromagnetism beginning with Electromagnetism I (8.02 or 8.022). It is a survey of basic electromagnetic phenomena: electrostatics; magnetostatics; electromagnetic properties of matter; time-dependent electromagnetic fields; Maxwell's equations; electromagnetic waves; emission, absorption, and scattering of radiation; and relativistic electrodynamics and mechanics. &nbsp;
8.08 | Statistical Physics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-08-statistical-physics-ii-spring-2005 | textbook:Huang, Kerson. Introduction to Statistical Physics. London, UK: Taylor & Francis, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Xiao-Gang Wen term:Spring 2005 features:Lecture notes description:This course covers probability distributions for classical and quantum systems. Topics include: Microcanonical, canonical, and grand canonical partition-functions and associated thermodynamic potentials. Also discussed are conditions of thermodynamic equilibrium for homogenous and heterogenous systems. The course follows 8.044, Statistical Physics I, and is second in this series of undergraduate Statistical Physics courses.
8.09 | Classical Mechanics III | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-09-classical-mechanics-iii-fall-2014 | textbook:Goldstein =  Goldstein, Herbert, Charles P. Poole, and John Safko. Classical Mechanics. Pearson, 2013. textbook:Strogatz =  Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Westview Press, 1994. textbook:Symon =  Symon, Keith R. Mechanics. Addison–Wesley, 1971. textbook:Thornton & Marion =  Thornton, Stephen T., and Jerry B. Marion. Classical Dynamics of Particles and Systems. Cengage Learning, 2003. level:Undergraduate instructors:Iain Stewart term:Fall 2014 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics, systems with constraints, rigid body dynamics, vibrations, central forces, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, action-angle variables, perturbation theory, and continuous systems. It provides an introduction to ideal and viscous fluid mechanics, including turbulence, as well as an introduction to nonlinear dynamics, including chaos.
8.13-14 | Experimental Physics I & II "Junior Lab" | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-13-14-experimental-physics-i-ii-junior-lab-fall-2007-spring-2008 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Physics Department Faculty, Lecturers, and Technical Staff,  Ulrich J. Becker term:Fall 2007 features: description:Junior Lab consists of two undergraduate courses in experimental physics. The courses are offered by the MIT Physics Department, and are usually taken by Juniors (hence the name). Officially, the courses are called Experimental Physics I and II and are numbered 8.13 for the first half, given in the fall semester, and 8.14 for the second half, given in the spring.The purposes of Junior Lab are to give students hands-on experience with some of the experimental basis of modern physics and, in the process, to deepen their understanding of the relations between experiment and theory, mostly in atomic and nuclear physics. Each term, students choose 5 different experiments from a list of 21 total labs.
8.20 | Introduction to Special Relativity | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-20-introduction-to-special-relativity-january-iap-2005 | textbook:Resnick, Robert. Introduction to Special Relativity. New York, NY: Wiley, 1968. textbook:French, Anthony Philip. Special Relativity. New York, NY: Norton, 1968. textbook:Einstein, Albert A. Relativity: The Special and the General Theory. New York, NY: Three Rivers Press/Random House, 1995. level:Undergraduate instructors:Bruce Knuteson term:January IAP 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course introduces the basic ideas and equations of Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity. If you have hoped to understand the physics of Lorentz contraction, time dilation, the &quot;twin paradox&quot;, and E=mc2, you're in the right place.AcknowledgementsProf. Knuteson wishes to acknowledge that this course was originally designed and taught by Prof. Robert Jaffe.
8.21 | The Physics of Energy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-21-the-physics-of-energy-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Robert Jaffe,  Washington Taylor term:Fall 2009 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is designed to give you the scientific understanding you need to answer questions like:    How much energy can we really get from wind?    How does a solar photovoltaic work?    What is an OTEC (Ocean Thermal Energy Converter) and how does it work?    What is the physics behind global warming?    What makes engines efficient?    How does a nuclear reactor work, and what are the realistic hazards?The course is designed for MIT sophomores, juniors, and seniors who want to understand the fundamental laws and physical processes that govern the sources, extraction, transmission, storage, degradation, and end uses of energy.
8.224 | Exploring Black Holes: General Relativity & Astrophysics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-224-exploring-black-holes-general-relativity-astrophysics-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Edmund Bertschinger,  Edwin F. Taylor term:Spring 2003 features:Selected video lectures, Selected lecture notes, Exams (no solutions) description:Study of physical effects in the vicinity of a black hole as a basis for understanding general relativity, astrophysics, and elements of cosmology. Extension to current developments in theory and observation. Energy and momentum in flat spacetime; the metric; curvature of spacetime near rotating and nonrotating centers of attraction; trajectories and orbits of particles and light; elementary models of the Cosmos. Weekly meetings include an evening seminar and recitation. The last third of the semester is reserved for collaborative research projects on topics such as the Global Positioning System, solar system tests of relativity, descending into a black hole, gravitational lensing, gravitational waves, Gravity Probe B, and more advanced models of the Cosmos.
8.225J | Einstein, Oppenheimer, Feynman: Physics in the 20th Century | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/science-technology-and-society/sts-042j-einstein-oppenheimer-feynman-physics-in-the-20th-century-spring-2011 | level:Undergraduate instructors:David Kaiser term:Spring 2011 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers the role of physics and physicists during the 20th century, focusing on Einstein, Oppenheimer, and Feynman. Beyond just covering the scientific developments, institutional, cultural, and political contexts will also be examined. 
8.231 | Physics of Solids I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-231-physics-of-solids-i-fall-2006 | textbook:Kittel, Charles. Introduction to Solid State Physics. 8th ed. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2004. textbook:Ashcroft, Neil W., and N. David Mermin. Solid State Physics. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1976. level:Undergraduate instructors:Xiao-Gang Wen term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course offers an introduction to the basic concepts of the quantum theory of solids.
8.251 | String Theory for Undergraduates | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-251-string-theory-for-undergraduates-spring-2007 | textbook:Zwiebach, Barton. A First Course in String Theory. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Becker, Katrin, Melanie Becker, and John H. Schwarz. String Theory and M-Theory: A Modern Introduction. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2007. level:Undergraduate instructors:Barton Zwiebach,  Alan Guth term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course introduces string theory to undergraduate and is based upon Prof. Zwiebach's textbook entitled A First Course in String Theory. Since string theory is quantum mechanics of a relativistic string, the foundations of the subject can be explained to students exposed to both special relativity and basic quantum mechanics. This course develops the aspects of string theory and makes it accessible to students familiar with basic electromagnetism and statistical mechanics.
8.261J | Introduction to Computational Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-29j-introduction-to-computational-neuroscience-spring-2004 | textbook:Dayan, Peter, and L. F. Abbott.Theoretical Neuroscience: Computational and Mathematical Modeling of Neural Systems. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. level:Undergraduate instructors:Sebastian Seung term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course gives a mathematical introduction to neural coding and dynamics. Topics include convolution, correlation, linear systems, game theory, signal detection theory, probability theory, information theory, and reinforcement learning. Applications to neural coding, focusing on the visual system are covered, as well as Hodgkin-Huxley and other related models of neural excitability, stochastic models of ion channels, cable theory, and models of synaptic transmission. Visit the Seung Lab Web site.
8.282J | Introduction to Astronomy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-282j-introduction-to-astronomy-spring-2006 | textbook:Zeilik, Michael, and Stephen A. Gregory. Introductory Astronomy and Astrophysics. 4th ed. Fort Worth, TX: Saunders College Publishing, 1997. level:Undergraduate instructors:Saul Rappaport term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams (no solutions) description:Introduction to Astronomy provides a quantitative introduction to the physics of the solar system, stars, the interstellar medium, the galaxy, and the&nbsp;universe, as determined from a variety of astronomical observations and models.
8.284 | Modern Astrophysics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-284-modern-astrophysics-spring-2006 | textbook:Bohm-Vitense, Erika. Introduction to Stellar Astrophysics. 3 vols. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1989. textbook:Binney, James, and Scott Tremaine. Galactic Dynamics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1987. textbook:Clayton, Donald D. Stellar Evolution and Nucleosynthesis. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1983. textbook:Hansen, Carl J., and Steven D. Kawaler. Stellar Interiors: Physical Principles, Structure, and Evolution. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Mihalas, Dimitri, and James Binney. Galactic Astronomy. San Francisco, CA: W.H. Freeman, 1981, chapter 2. textbook:Shu, Frank H. The Physical Universe. Mill Valley, CA: University Science Books, 1982. level:Undergraduate instructors:Paul Schechter term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course explores the applications of physics (Newtonian, statistical, and quantum mechanics) to fundamental processes that occur in celestial objects. The list of topics includes Main-sequence Stars, Collapsed Stars (White Dwarfs, Neutron Stars, and Black Holes), Pulsars, Supernovae, the Interstellar Medium, Galaxies, and as time permits, Active Galaxies, Quasars, and Cosmology. Observational data is also discussed.
8.286 | The Early Universe | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-286-the-early-universe-fall-2013 | textbook:Ryden, Barbara. Introduction to Cosmology. Addison-Wesley, 2002. textbook:Weinberg, Steven. The First Three Minutes: A Modern View of the Origin of the Universe. 2nd updated ed. Basic Books, 1993. textbook:Liddle, Andrew. An Introduction to Modern Cosmology. 2nd ed. Wiley, 2003. textbook:Guth, Alan H. The Inflationary Universe. Basic Books, 1998. textbook:Peacock, John A. Cosmological Physics. Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Peebles, P. J. E. Principles of Physical Cosmology. Princeton University Press, 1993. textbook:Weinberg, Steven. Cosmology. Oxford University Press, 2008. textbook:Dodelson, Scott. Modern Cosmology. Academic Press, 2003. textbook:Mukhanov, Viatcheslav. Physical Foundations of Cosmology. Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Kolb, Edward W., and Michael S. Turner. The Early Universe. Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1990. textbook:Linde, Andrei. Particle Physics and Inflationary Cosmology (Contemporary Concepts in Physics). CRC Press, 1990. level:Undergraduate instructors:Alan Guth term:Fall 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:The Early Universe provides an introduction to modern cosmology. The first part of the course deals with the classical cosmology, and later part with modern particle physics and its recent impact on cosmology.For more about Professor Guth's work, listen to this interview from WBUR, Boston's National Public Radio news station.
8.311 | Electromagnetic Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-311-electromagnetic-theory-spring-2004 | textbook:Schwinger = Schwinger, Julian, L. L. DeRaad Jr., K. A. Milton, W-Y Tsai. Classical Electrodynamics. Reading, Massachusetts: Perseus Book Group, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Leonid Levitov term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:Electromagnetic Theory covers the basic principles of electromagnetism: experimental basis, electrostatics, magnetic fields of steady currents, motional e.m.f. and electromagnetic induction, Maxwell's equations, propagation and radiation of electromagnetic waves, electric and magnetic properties of matter, and conservation laws. This is a graduate level subject which uses appropriate mathematics but whose emphasis is on physical phenomena and principles.
8.321 | Quantum Theory I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-321-quantum-theory-i-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Washington Taylor term:Fall 2002 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:8.321 is the first semester of a two-semester subject on quantum theory, stressing principles. Topics covered include: Hilbert spaces, observables, uncertainty relations, eigenvalue problems and methods for solution thereof, time-evolution in the Schrodinger, Heisenberg, and interaction pictures, connections between classical and quantum mechanics, path integrals, quantum mechanics in EM fields, angular momentum, time-independent perturbation theory, density operators, and quantum measurement.
8.322 | Quantum Theory II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-322-quantum-theory-ii-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Washington Taylor term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:8.322 is the second semester of a two-semester subject on quantum theory, stressing principles.&nbsp;Topics covered include: time-dependent perturbation theory and applications to radiation, quantization of EM radiation field, adiabatic theorem and Berry's phase, symmetries in QM, many-particle systems, scattering theory, relativistic quantum mechanics, and Dirac equation.
8.323 | Relativistic Quantum Field Theory I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-323-relativistic-quantum-field-theory-i-spring-2008 | textbook:Peskin, Michael E., and Daniel V. Schroeder. An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1995. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Guth term:Spring 2008 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:8.323, Relativistic Quantum Field Theory I, is a one-term self-contained subject in quantum field theory. Concepts and basic techniques are developed through applications in elementary particle physics, and condensed matter physics.
8.324 | Relativistic Quantum Field Theory II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-324-relativistic-quantum-field-theory-ii-fall-2010 | textbook:Peskin, Michael E., and Daniel V. Schroeder. An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1995. textbook:Weinberg, S. The Quantum Theory of Fields. Vol. 1: Foundations. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:———. The Quantum Theory of Fields. Vol. 2: Modern Applications. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Zee, A. Quantum Field Theory in a Nutshell. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2003. textbook:Srednicki, Mark. Quantum Field Theory. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2007. textbook:Banks, Tom. Modern Quantum Field Theory: A Concise Introduction. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2008. textbook:Brown, Lowell S. Quantum Field Theory. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1994. textbook:Collins, J. Renormalization. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:Ramond, P. Field Theory: A Modern Primer. 2nd ed. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1994. textbook:Ryder, L. Quantum Field Theory. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1986. textbook:Mandl, F., and G. Shaw. Quantum Field Theory. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1984. level:Graduate instructors:Hong Liu term:Fall 2010 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course is the second course of the quantum field theory trimester sequence beginning with Relativistic Quantum Field Theory I (8.323) and ending with Relativistic Quantum Field Theory III (8.325). It develops in depth some of the topics discussed in 8.323 and introduces some advanced material.
8.325 | Relativistic Quantum Field Theory III (Spring 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-325-relativistic-quantum-field-theory-iii-spring-2007 | textbook:Peskin, Michael E., and Daniel V. Schroeder. An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory (Frontiers in Physics). New York, NY: HarperCollins Publishers, 1995. textbook:Weinberg, Steven. The Quantum Theory of Fields. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:———. The Quantum Theory of Fields. Vol. II. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Pokorski, Stefan. Gauge Field Theories (Cambridge Monographs on Mathematical Physics). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1987. textbook:Zee, A. Quantum Field Theory in a Nutshell. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2003. textbook:Donoghue, John F., Eugene Golowich, and Barry R. Holstein. Dynamics of the Standard Model (Cambridge Monographs on Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics, and Cosmology). Vol. 2. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Cheng, Ta-Pei, and Ling-Fong Li. Gauge Theory of Elementary Particle Physics. Oxford Science Publications. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1988. textbook:Collins, John C. Renormalization: An Introduction to Renormalization, the Renormalization Group, and the Operator-Product Expansion (Cambridge Monographs on Mathematical Physics). Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1984. textbook:Ellis, R. K., W. J. Stirling, and B. R. Webber. QCD and Collider Physics (Cambridge Monographs on Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics, and Cosmology). Vol. 8. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Georgi, Howard. Weak Interactions and Modern Particle Theory. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings Pub. Co., 1984. textbook:Coleman, Sidney. Aspects of Symmetry: Selected Erice Lectures of Sidney Coleman. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1985. textbook:Creutz, Michael. Quarks, Gluons, and Lattices (Cambridge Monographs on Mathematical Physics). Cambridge [Cambridgeshire], UK: Cambridge University Press, 1984. level:Graduate instructors:Iain Stewart term:Spring 2007 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course is the third and last term of the quantum field theory sequence. Its aim is the proper theoretical discussion of the physics of the standard model. Topics include: quantum chromodynamics; the Higgs phenomenon and a description of the standard model; deep-inelastic scattering and structure functions; basics of lattice gauge theory; operator products and effective theories; detailed structure of the standard model; spontaneously broken gauge theory and its quantization; instantons and theta-vacua; topological defects; introduction to supersymmetry.
8.325 | Relativistic Quantum Field Theory III (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-325-relativistic-quantum-field-theory-iii-spring-2003 | textbook:Peskin, M., and D. Schroeder. An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory. Boulder, Colorado: Westview Press, 1 June 1995. textbook:Cheng, Ta-Pei, and Ling-Fong Li. Gauge Theory of Elementary Particle Physics. Clarendon: Oxford University Press, 1984. textbook:———. Gauge Theory of Elementary Particle Physics: Problems and Solutions. 1st ed. UK: Oxford University Press, 1 May 2000. textbook:Aitchison, I., and A. Hey. Gauge Theories in Particle Physics. UK: Oxford University Press, 1 September 1988. textbook:Ellis, R., W. Stirling, and B. Webber. QCD and Collider Physics. Cambridge University Press, 24 October 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Frank Wilczek term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:This is the third and last term of the quantum field theory sequence. The course is devoted to the standard model of particle physics, including both its conceptual foundations and its specific structure, and to some current research frontiers that grow immediately out of it.
8.333 | Statistical Mechanics I:  Statistical Mechanics of Particles | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-333-statistical-mechanics-i-statistical-mechanics-of-particles-fall-2013 | level:Graduate instructors:Mehran Kardar term:Fall 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Statistical Mechanics is a probabilistic approach to equilibrium properties of large numbers of degrees of freedom. In this two-semester course, basic principles are examined. Topics include: Thermodynamics, probability theory, kinetic theory, classical statistical mechanics, interacting systems, quantum statistical mechanics, and identical particles.
8.334 | Statistical Mechanics II: Statistical Physics of Fields | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-334-statistical-mechanics-ii-statistical-physics-of-fields-spring-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Mehran Kardar term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This is the second term in a two-semester course on statistical mechanics. Basic principles are examined in this class, such as the laws of thermodynamics and the concepts of temperature, work, heat, and entropy. Topics from modern statistical mechanics are also explored, including the hydrodynamic limit and classical field theories.
8.351J | Classical Mechanics: A Computational Approach | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/earth-atmospheric-and-planetary-sciences/12-620j-classical-mechanics-a-computational-approach-fall-2008 | textbook:Sussman, Gerald Jay, and Jack Wisdom. Structure and Interpretation of Classical Mechanics. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Gerald Sussman,  Jack Wisdom term:Fall 2008 features: description:We will study the fundamental principles of classical mechanics, with a modern emphasis on the qualitative structure of phase space. We will use computational ideas to formulate the principles of mechanics precisely. Expression in a computational framework encourages clear thinking and active exploration.We will consider the following topics: the Lagrangian formulation; action, variational principles, and equations of motion; Hamilton's principle; conserved quantities; rigid bodies and tops; Hamiltonian formulation and canonical equations; surfaces of section; chaos; canonical transformations and generating functions; Liouville's theorem and Poincar&eacute; integral invariants; Poincar&eacute;-Birkhoff and KAM theorems; invariant curves and cantori; nonlinear resonances; resonance overlap and transition to chaos; properties of chaotic motion.Ideas will be illustrated and supported with physical examples. We will make extensive use of computing to capture methods, for simulation, and for symbolic analysis.
8.371J | Quantum Information Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-865j-quantum-information-science-spring-2006 | textbook:Nielsen, Michael A., and Isaac L. Chuang. Quantum Computation and Quantum Information. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Isaac Chuang,  Peter Shor term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This is an advanced graduate course on quantum computation and quantum information, for which prior knowledge of quantum mechanics is required. Topics include quantum computation, advanced quantum error correction codes, fault tolerance, quantum algorithms beyond factoring, properties of quantum entanglement, and quantum protocols and communication complexity.
8.395J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Fall 2012) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-fall-2012 | textbook:[WM] =  McKeachie, W. J., et al. Teaching Tips: Strategies, Research, and Theory for College and University Teachers. 9th ed. D.C. Health & Co., 1994. textbook:[PW/FO] =  Wankat, P. C., and F. S. Oreovicz. Teaching Engineering. McGraw-Hill, 1992. textbook:[BGD] =  Davis, B. Gross. Tools for Teaching. Jossey-Bass Publishers, 1993. textbook:Bok, Derek. "The Evolution of American Colleges," and "Purposes." In Our Underachieving Colleges: A Candid Look at How Much Students Learn and Why they Should be Learning More. Princeton University Press, 2005, pp. 11–30. textbook:Hooks, Bell. Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of Freedom. Routledge Press, 1994, pp. 1–12. textbook:Seymour, E., and N. M. Hewitt. Talking about Leaving: Why Undergraduates Leave the Sciences. Westview Press, 2000, pp. 13–9, 33, 145–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "Week 7-Students as Learners." In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semeseter of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008, pp. 153–77. textbook:Lang, J. M. "The Syllabus." Chapter 0 in On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Lang, J. M. "In the Classroom: Lectures." Chapter 3 In On Course: A Week by Week Guide to Your First Semester of College Teaching. Harvard University Press, 2008. textbook:Tauber, R.T., and C. Sargent Mester. Acting Lessons for Teachers: Using Performance Skills in the Classroom. Praeger, 2006. textbook:Halpern, B. L., and K. Lubar. Leadership Presence: Dramatic Techniques to Reach Out, Motivate and Inspire. Gotham, 2003. textbook:Alfeld, Peter. How to Solve It: A New Aspect of Mathematical Method. Summary of G. Polya. 2nd ed. Department of Mathematics, University of Utah. Princeton University Press, 1973. textbook:Barad, Karen. "A Feminist Approach to Teaching Quantum Physics." Chapter 2 in Teaching the Majority: Breaking the Gender Barrier in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering. Edited by S. Rosser. Teachers College Press, 1995, pp. 43–75. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Janet Rankin term:Fall 2012 features:This Course at MIT description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Topics include theories of adult learning; course development; promoting active learning, problem-solving, and critical thinking in students; communicating with a diverse student body; using educational technology to further learning; lecturing; creating effective tests and assignments; and assessment and evaluation. Students research and present a relevant topic of particular interest. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
8.395J | Teaching College-Level Science and Engineering (Spring 2009) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemistry/5-95j-teaching-college-level-science-and-engineering-spring-2009 | textbook:Ma, Liping. Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics: Teachers' Understanding of Fundamental Mathematics in China and the United States. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1999, Introduction, chapters 3 and 5. textbook:Tobias, Sheila. They're Not Dumb, They're Different: Stalking the Second Tier. Tucson, AZ: Research Corporation, 1994, pp. 19-32. textbook:Wiggins, Grant P., and Jay McTighe. Understanding by Design. Alexandria, VA: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, 1998, pp. 5-7, 13-16, 18-19, 22, 38-55, 146, 151, 189-190, and 257. textbook:Spring, Joel H. Education and the Rise of the Corporate State. Boston, MA: Beacon Press, 1972, pp. xi-xiii. textbook:Nasaw, David. Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the United States. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1979, pp. 44-47 and 52-53. level:Graduate instructors:Sanjoy Mahajan term:Spring 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Faculty introduction - video, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions) description:This participatory seminar focuses on the knowledge and skills necessary for teaching science and engineering in higher education. This course is designed for graduate students interested in an academic career, and anyone else interested in teaching. Readings and discussions include: teaching equations for understanding, designing exam and homework questions, incorporating histories of science, creating absorbing lectures, teaching for transfer, the evils of PowerPoint, and planning a course. The subject is appropriate for both novices and those with teaching experience.
8.421 | Atomic and Optical Physics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-421-atomic-and-optical-physics-i-spring-2014 | textbook:Foot, Christopher J., Atomic Physics. Oxford University Press, 2005. textbook:Inguscio, Massimo, and Fallani, Leonardo. Atomic Physics: Precise Measurements and Ultracold Matter. Oxford University Press, 2013. textbook:Loudon, Rodney. The Quantum Theory of Light. Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Weissbluth, Mitchel. Photon-Atom Interactions. Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Dalibard, J., J. M. Raimond, and J. Zinn-Justin, eds. Proceeding of the Summer School in Les Houches 1990: Fundamental Systems in Quantum Optics. (Les Houches) Session LIII, 1990. North Holland, 1993. textbook:Arimondo, E., W. D. Phillips, and F. Strumia, eds. Proceeding of the Summer School in Varenna 1991: "Enrico Fermi." In Laser Manipulation of Atoms and Ions, Proceedings of the International School of Physics Course CXVIII. North-Holland, 1993. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude. Atoms in Electromagnetic Fields. World Scientific, 2005. textbook:Allen, L., and J. H. Eberly. Optical Resonance and Two-level Atoms. Dover Publication, 1987. textbook:Demtröder, W. Laser Spectroscopy. Springer, 2002. textbook:Svelto, O. Principle of Lasers. Springer, 2009. textbook:Svanberg, S. Atomic and Molecular Spectroscopy: Basic Aspects and Practical Applications. Springer, 1997. textbook:Corney, A. Atomic and Laser Spectroscopy. Oxford University Press, 1977. textbook:Thorne, A.P. Spectrophysics. Chapman and Hall, 1974. textbook:Scully, M. O., and M. S. Zubairy. Quantum Optics. Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Suter, D. The physics of Laser-atom Interactions. Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:The book most relevant to the course (mainly for 8.422) is: Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude, Jaques Dupont-Roc, and Gilbert Grynberg. Atom-Photon-Interactions: Basic Processes and Applications. Wiley-VCH, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Wolfgang Ketterle term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This is the first of a two-semester subject sequence that provides the foundations for contemporary research in selected areas of atomic and optical physics. Topics covered include the interaction of radiation with atoms: resonance; absorption, stimulated and spontaneous emission; methods of resonance, dressed atom formalism, masers and lasers, cavity quantum electrodynamics; structure of simple atoms, behavior in very strong fields; fundamental tests: time reversal, parity violations, Bell's inequalities; and experimental methods.
8.422 | Atomic and Optical Physics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-422-atomic-and-optical-physics-ii-spring-2013 | textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude, Jaques Dupont-Roc, and Gilbert Grynberg. Atom-Photon-Interactions: Basic Processes and Applications. Wiley-VCH, 1998. textbook:Loudon, Rodney. The Quantum Theory of Light. Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Weissbluth, Mitchel. Photon-Atom Interactions. Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Proceeding of the Summer School in Les Houches 1990: Fundamental Systems in Quantum Optics. (Les Houches) Session LIII, 1990. Edited by J. Dalibard, J. M. Raimond, and J. Zinn-Justin. North Holland, 1993. textbook:Arimondo, E., W. D. Phillips, and F. Strumia, eds. Proceeding of the summer school in Varenna 1991: "Enrico Fermi." In Laser Manipulation of Atoms and Ions, Proceedings of the International School of Physics Course CXVIII. North-Holland, 1993. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude. Atoms in Electromagnetic Fields. World Scientific, 2005. (Selected Original Papers of C. -T.) textbook:Allen, L., and J. H. Eberly. Optical Resonance and Two-level Atoms. Dover Publication, 1987. textbook:Demtröder, W. Laser Spectroscopy. Springer, 2002. textbook:Svelto, O. Principle of Lasers. Springer, 2009. textbook:Svanberg, S. Atomic and Molecular Spectroscopy: Basic Aspects and Practical Applications. Springer, 2003. textbook:Corney, A. Atomic and Laser Spectroscopy. Oxford University Press, 1987. textbook:Thorne, A. P. Spectrophysics. Springer, 1988. textbook:Scully, M. O., and M. S. Zubairy. Quantum Optics. Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Suter, D. The Physics of Laser-Atom Interactions. Cambridge University Press, 1997. textbook:Weissbluth, Mitchel. Photon Atom Interactions. Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude, Jaques Dupont-Roc, and Gilbert Grynberg. "A 500-page derivation and discussion of the basic equations of QED." In Photons and Atoms - Introduction to Quantum Electrodynamics. Wiley-VCH, 1997. textbook:Loudon, Rodney. "Chaotic Light." Chapter 3 in The Quantum Theory of Light. 3rd ed. Oxford University Press, 2000. textbook:Weissbluth, Mitchel. "The Radiation Field up to Squeezing." Chapter 4.4–4.8 in Photon Atom Interactions. Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Weissbluth, Mitchel. "Section on Squeezed States." Chapter 4.9 in Photon Atom Interactions. Academic Press, 1989. textbook:Kimble, H. J. "Quantum Fluctuations in Quantum Optics." In Fundamental Systems in Quantum Optics. Edited by J. Dalibard, J. M. Raimond, and J. Zinn-Justin. Proceeding of the Summer School in Les Houches, Session LIII, 1990. Elsevier, 1992. textbook:Nielsen, Michael A., and Isaac L. Chuang. "Schmidt Decomposition." In Quantum Computation and Quantum Information. Cambridge University Press, 2000, pp. 109–17. textbook:Baym, Gordon. Lectures on Quantum Mechanics. W. A. Benjamin, 1973, pp. 430–5. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude, Jaques Dupont-Roc, and Gilbert Grynberg. Atom-Photon-Interactions, Basic Processes and Applications. Wiley-VCH, 1998, pp. 118-26. textbook:Haroche, S. "Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics." In Fundamental Systems in Quantum Optics. Proceeding of the Summer School in Les Houches, Session LIII, 1990. Edited by J. Dalibard, J. M. Raimond, and J. Zinn-Justin. Elsevier, 1992. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude, Jaques Dupont-Roc, and Gilbert Grynberg. Chapter 3 in Atom-Photon-Interactions, Basic Processes and Applications. Wiley-VCH, 1998. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude, Jaques Dupont-Roc, and Gilbert Grynberg. Atom-Photon-Interactions, Basic Processes and Applications. Wiley-VCH, 1998, pp. 370-9. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude. "Atomic Motion in Laser Light." In Fundamental Systems in Quantum Optics (Les Houches), Session LIII, 1990. Edited by J. Dalibard, J. M. Raimond, and J. Zinn Justin. North Holland, 1993, pp. 1–64. textbook:Cohen-Tannoudji, Claude, Jaques Dupont-Roc, and Gilbert Grynberg. "Worth Reading!" Chapter 4 in Atom-Photon-Interactions, Basic Processes and Applications. Wiley-VCH, 1998. textbook:Phillips, W. D. "Laser Cooling and Trapping of Neutral Atoms." In Laser Manipulation of Atoms and Ions, Proceedings of the International School of Physics Enrico Fermi, Course CXVIII. Edited by E. Arimondo, W. D. Phillips, and F. Strumia. North-Holland, 1993, pp. 316–55. textbook:Ketterle, Wolfgang, D. S. Durfee, et al. "Making, Probing and Understanding Bose-Einstein Condensates." In Bose-Einstein Condensation in Atomic Gases (Proceedings of the International School of Physics) "Enrico Fermi", Course CXL. Edited by M. Inguscio, S. Stringari, and C. E. Wieman, IOS Press, 1999, pp. 67–176. textbook:Pethick, C. J., and H. Smith. Bose-Einstein Condensation in Dilute Gases. Cambridge University Press, 2008. textbook:Selected Pages              ———. "On Bogoliubov Transformation and Collective Excitation." Bose-Einstein Condensation in Dilute Gases. Cambridge University Press, 2008, pp. 205–14. textbook:———. "On Nonlinear Schrödinger Equation." Bose-Einstein Condensation in Dilute Gases. Cambridge University Press, 2008, pp. 146–56. textbook:———. "On Hydrodynamics." Bose-Einstein Condensation in Dilute Gases. Cambridge University Press, 2008, pp. 165–79. level:Graduate instructors:Wolfgang Ketterle term:Spring 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This is the second of a two-semester subject sequence beginning with Atomic and Optical Physics I (8.421) that provides the foundations for contemporary research in selected areas of atomic and optical physics. Topics covered include non-classical states of light&ndash;squeezed states; multi-photon processes, Raman scattering; coherence&ndash;level crossings, quantum beats, double resonance, superradiance; trapping and cooling-light forces, laser cooling, atom optics, spectroscopy of trapped atoms and ions; atomic interactions&ndash;classical collisions, quantum scattering theory, ultracold collisions; and experimental methods.
8.511 | Theory of Solids I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-511-theory-of-solids-i-fall-2004 | textbook:Marder, Michael P. Condensed Matter Physics. New York: Wiley, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Patrick Lee term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This is the first term of a theoretical treatment of the physics of solids. Topics covered include crystal structure and band theory, density functional theory, a survey of properties of metals and semiconductors, quantum Hall effect, phonons, electron phonon interaction and superconductivity.
8.512 | Theory of Solids II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-512-theory-of-solids-ii-spring-2009 | level:Graduate instructors:Patrick Lee term:Spring 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This is the second term of a theoretical treatment of the physics of solids. Topics covered include linear response theory; the physics of disorder; superconductivity; the local moment and itinerant magnetism; the Kondo problem and Fermi liquid theory.
8.513 | Many-Body Theory for Condensed Matter Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-513-many-body-theory-for-condensed-matter-systems-fall-2004 | textbook:Negele, John W., and Henri Orland. Quantum Many-Particle Systems. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, October 1998. textbook:Stone, Michael. The Physics of Quantum Fields. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, February 1999. textbook:Auerbach, Assa. Interacting Electrons and Quantum Magnetism. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1994. textbook:Wen, Xiao-Gang. Quantum Field Theory Of Many-body Systems: From The Origin Of Sound To An Origin Of Light And Electrons. Oxford, UK; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Sachdev, Subir. Quantum Phase Transitions. Cambridge, UK; New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Anderson, P. W. Basic Notions of Condensed Matter Physics. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, November 27, 1997. textbook:Fradkin, Eduardo. Field Theories of Condensed Matter Systems. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, August 26, 1998. textbook:Polyakov, A. M. Gauge Fields and Strings. New York, NY: Harwood Academic Publishers, Taylor & Francis Scientific, Technical and Medical, October 1, 1987. level:Graduate instructors:Senthil Todadri term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes description:This course covers the concepts and physical pictures behind various phenomena that appear in interacting many-body systems. Visualization occurs through concentration on path integral, mean-field theories and semi-classical picture of fluctuations around mean-field state.
8.514 | Strongly Correlated Systems in Condensed Matter Physics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-514-strongly-correlated-systems-in-condensed-matter-physics-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Leonid Levitov term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:In this course we shall develop theoretical methods suitable for the description of the many-body phenomena, such as Hamiltonian second-quantized operator formalism, Greens functions, path integral, functional integral, and the quantum kinetic equation. The concepts to be introduced include, but are not limited to, the random phase approximation, the mean field theory (aka saddle-point, or semiclassical approximation), the tunneling dynamics in imaginary time, instantons, Berry phase, coherent state path integral, renormalization group.
8.575J | Statistical Thermodynamics of Complex Liquids | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-52j-statistical-thermodynamics-of-complex-liquids-spring-2004 | textbook:Hansen, J-P., and Ian R. McDonald. Theory of Simple Liquids. 2nd ed. San Diego: Academic Press, 1990. textbook:Egelstaff, P. A. An Introduction to the Liquid State. 2nd ed. New York: Oxford University Press, 1994. textbook:Friedman, H. L. A Course in Statistical Mechanics. New York: Prentice Hall, 1985. level:Graduate instructors:Sow-Hsin Chen term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course explores the theory of self-assembly in surfactant-water (micellar) and surfactant-water-oil (micro-emulsion) systems. It also introduces the theory of polymer solutions, as well as scattering techniques, light, x-ray, and neutron scattering applied to studies of the structure and dynamics of complex liquids, and modern theory of the liquid state relevant to structured (supramolecular) liquids.
8.591J | Systems Biology (Fall 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2014 | textbook:[UA] =  Alon, U. An Introduction to Systems Biology: Design Principles of Biological Circuits. Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2006. textbook:[MN] =  Nowak, M. A. Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the Equations of Life. Belknap Press, 2006. textbook:[BA] =  Alberts, B., et al. Essential Cell Biology. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 2009. textbook:[SS] =  Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Westview Press, 2014. textbook:Edelstein-Keshet, L. Sections 6.2, 6.6, and 6.7 in Mathematical Models in Biology. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, 2005. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions), Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides an introduction to cellular and population-level systems biology with an emphasis on synthetic biology, modeling of genetic networks, cell-cell interactions, and evolutionary dynamics. Cellular systems include genetic switches and oscillators, network motifs, genetic network evolution, and cellular decision-making. Population-level systems include models of pattern formation, cell-cell communication, and evolutionary systems biology.
8.591J | Systems Biology (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-591j-systems-biology-fall-2004 | textbook:The following sections from  Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York: Garland Science, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Alexander van Oudenaarden term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course introduces the mathematical modeling techniques needed to address key questions in modern biology. An overview of modeling techniques in molecular biology and genetics, cell biology and developmental biology is covered. Key experiments that validate mathematical models are also discussed, as well as molecular, cellular, and developmental systems biology, bacterial chemotaxis, genetic oscillators, control theory and genetic networks, and gradient sensing systems. Additional specific topics include: constructing and modeling of genetic networks, lambda phage as a genetic switch, synthetic genetic switches, circadian rhythms, reaction diffusion equations, local activation and global inhibition models, center finding networks, general pattern formation models, modeling cell-cell communication, quorum sensing, and finally, models for Drosophila development.
8.592J | Statistical Physics in Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-592j-statistical-physics-in-biology-spring-2011 | textbook:Alberts, Bruce, et al. Molecular Biology of the Cell. 3rd ed. Garland Science, 1994. textbook:Durbin, Richard, et al. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of Proteins and Nucleic Acids. Cambridge University Press, 1998. textbook:Frank-Kamenetskii, Maxim D. Unraveling DNA: The Most Important Molecule of Life. Translated by Lev Liapin. Basic Books, 1997. textbook:Watson, James D., et al. Molecular Biology of the Gene. 5th ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 2003. textbook:Nelson, Philip. Biological Physics: Energy, Information, Life. W. H. Freeman, 2003. textbook:Phillips, Rob, Jane Kondev, et al. Physical Biology of the Cell. Garland Science, 2008. textbook:Howard, Jonathan. Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Finkelstein, Alexei V., and Oleg B. Ptitsyn. Protein Physics: A Course of Lectures. Academic Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Mehran Kardar,  Leonid Mirny term:Spring 2011 features:This Course at MIT description:Statistical Physics in Biology is a survey of problems at the interface of statistical physics and modern biology. Topics include: bioinformatic methods for extracting information content of DNA; gene finding, sequence comparison, and phylogenetic trees; physical interactions responsible for structure of biopolymers; DNA double helix, secondary structure of RNA, and elements of protein folding; considerations of force, motion, and packaging; protein motors, membranes. We also look at collective behavior of biological elements, cellular networks, neural networks, and evolution.
8.594J | Introduction to Neural Networks | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-641j-introduction-to-neural-networks-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Sebastian Seung term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course explores the organization of synaptic connectivity as the basis of neural computation and learning. Perceptrons and dynamical theories of recurrent networks including amplifiers, attractors, and hybrid computation are covered. Additional topics include backpropagation and Hebbian learning, as well as models of perception, motor control, memory, and neural development.
8.613J | Introduction to Plasma Physics I (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-611j-introduction-to-plasma-physics-i-fall-2006 | textbook:Chen, F. F. Introduction to Plasma Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Springer, 1984. textbook:Shohet, J. L. The Plasma State. San Diego, CA: Academic Press Inc., 1971. textbook:Tanenbaum, B. S. Plasma Physics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1967. textbook:Hazeltine, R. D., and F. L. Waelbroeck. The Framework of Plasma Physics. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 2004. textbook:Goldston, R. J., and P. H. Rutherford. Introduction to Plasma Physics. Philadelphia, PA: IOP Publishing, 1995. textbook:Clemmow, P. C., and J. P. Dougherty. Electrodynamics of Particles and Plasmas. New York, NY: Perseus Books, 1989. textbook:Schmidt, G. Physics of High Temperature Plasmas. 2nd ed. San Diego, CA: Academic Press, 1979. textbook:Dendy, R., ed. Plasma Physics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995. textbook:Krall, N. A., and A. W. Trivelpiece. Principles of Plasma Physics. Berkeley, CA: San Francisco Press, 1986. textbook:Ichimaru, S. Principles of Plasma Physics - A Statistical Approach. Boston, MA: Addison Wesley Publishing Company, 1973. textbook:J. P. Freidberg. Ideal Magnetohydrodynamics. New York, NY: Springer, 1987. textbook:Stix, T. H. Waves in Plasmas. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Hutchinson, I. H. Principles of Plasma Diagnostics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Rose, D. J., and M. Clark, Jr. Plasmas and Controlled Fusion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1961. textbook:Miyamoto, K. Plasma Physics for Nuclear Fusion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Wesson, J. Tokamaks. 3rd ed. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Tajima, T., and K. Shibata. Plasma Astrophysics. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Ron Parker term:Fall 2006 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:The plasma state dominates the visible universe, and is important in fields as diverse as Astrophysics and Controlled Fusion. Plasma is often referred to as "the fourth state of matter." This course introduces the study of the nature and behavior of plasma. A variety of models to describe plasma behavior are presented.
8.613J | Introduction to Plasma Physics I (Fall 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-611j-introduction-to-plasma-physics-i-fall-2003 | textbook:Chen, F. F.Introduction to Plasma Physics. 2nd ed. Plenum Press, 1995. textbook:Shohet, J. L.The Plasma State. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1971. textbook:Tanenbaum, B. S.Plasma Physics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1967. textbook:Hazeltine, R. D., and F. L. Waelbroeck.The Framework of Plasma Physics. NewYork, NY: HarperCollins Publishers, 1998. textbook:Goldston, R. J., and P. H. Rutherford.Introduction to Plasma Physics. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis Inc., 1995. textbook:Clemmow, P. C., and J. P. Dougherty.Electrodynamics of Particles and Plasmas. NewYork, NY: Perseus Books, 1989. textbook:Spitzer, L., Jr.Physics of Fully Ionized Gases. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Interscience-John Wiley, 1962. textbook:Schmidt, G.Physics of High Temperature Plasmas. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1979. textbook:Dendy, R., ed.Plasma Physics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1994. textbook:Krall, N. A., and A. W. Trivelpiece.Principles of Plasma Physics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1973. Reissued by San Francisco Press, 1986. textbook:Ichimaru, S.Principles of Plasma Physics - A Statistical Approach. W. H. Benjamin, 1973. textbook:Stix, T. H.Waves in Plasmas. American Institute of Physics, 1992. textbook:Hutchinson, I. H.Principles of Plasma Diagnostics. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1987. textbook:Rose, D. J., and M. Clark, Jr.Plasmas and Controlled Fusion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press; New York, NY: John Wiley, 1961. textbook:Miyamoto, K.Plasma Physics for Nuclear Fusion. Revised ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Wesson, J.Tokamaks. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1987. textbook:Tajima, T., and K. Shibata.Plasma Astrophysics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Ian Hutchinson,  Jeffrey Freidberg term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes description:In this course, students will learn about plasmas, the fourth state of matter. The plasma state dominates the visible universe, and is of increasing economic importance. Plasmas behave in lots of interesting and sometimes unexpected ways.The course is intended only as a first plasma physics course, but includes&nbsp;critical concepts needed for a foundation for further study. A solid undergraduate background in classical physics, electromagnetic theory including Maxwell's equations, and mathematical familiarity with partial differential equations and complex analysis are prerequisites.The course introduces plasma phenomena relevant to energy generation by controlled thermonuclear fusion and to astrophysics, coulomb collisions and transport processes, motion of charged particles in magnetic fields, plasma confinement schemes, MHD models, simple equilibrium and stability analysis. It also covers two-fluid hydrodynamic plasma models, wave propagation in a magnetic field, kinetic theory, Vlasov plasma model, electron plasma waves and Landau damping, ion-acoustic waves, and&nbsp;streaming instabilities. A subject description tailored to fit the background and interests of the attending students is distributed shortly before and at the beginning of the subject.
8.701 | Introduction to Nuclear and Particle Physics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-701-introduction-to-nuclear-and-particle-physics-spring-2004 | textbook:Halzen, F., and A. D. Martin. Quarks and Leptons. New York: Wiley Text Books, January 1984. textbook:Wong, Samuel S. M. Introductory Nuclear Physics. 2nd ed. New York: Wiley-Interscience, 1999. textbook:Griffith, D. Introduction to Elementary Particles. New Ed ed. NY: Wiley Text Books, 1 March 1987. textbook:Povh, B. Particles and Nuclei: An Introduction to the Physical Concepts. 3rd ed. Berlin; New York: Springer-Verlag, 1 August 2002. textbook:Sakurai, J. J. Modern Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., 15 January 1994. textbook:Wille, Klaus. The Physics of Particle Accelerators: An Introduction. Translated by Jason McFall. Oxford: Oxford University Press, May 2001. textbook:Fernow, Richard. Introduction to Experimental Particle Physics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. textbook:Leo, W. R. Techniques for Nuclear and Particle Physics Experiments. Berlin; New York: Springer-Verlag. level:Graduate instructors:Bernd Surrow term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:The phenomenology and experimental foundations of particle and nuclear physics are explored in this course. Emphasis is on the fundamental forces and particles, as well as composites.
8.811 | Particle Physics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-811-particle-physics-ii-fall-2005 | textbook:Q&L = Halzen, F., and A. D. Martin. Quarks & Leptons: An Introductory Course in Modern Particle Physics. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1984. textbook:CP = Barger, V. D., and R. J. N. Phillips. Collider Physics. Menlo Park, CA: Addison-Wesley, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Min Chen term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:8.811, Particle Physics II, describes essential research in High Energy Physics. We derive the Standard Model (SM) first using a bottom up method based on Unitarity, in addition to the usual top down method using SU3xSU2xU1. We describe and analyze several classical experiments, which established the SM, as examples on how to design experiments. Further topics include heavy flavor physics, high-precision tests of the Standard Model, neutrino oscillations, searches for new phenomena (compositeness, supersymmetry, technical color, and GUTs), and discussion of expectations from future accelerators (B factory, LHC, large electron-positron linear colliders, etc). The term paper requires the students to have constant discussions with the instructor throughout the semester on theories, physics, measurables, signatures, detectors, resolution, background identification and elimination, signal to noise and statistical analysis.
8.821 | String Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-821-string-theory-fall-2008 | textbook:Kiritsis, Elias. String Theory in a Nutshell. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2007, appendix K. textbook:Kiritsis, Elias. String Theory in a Nutshell. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2007, section 13.9. textbook:Susskind, Leonard, and James Lindesay. An Introduction to Black Holes, Information, and the String Theory Revolution: The Holographic Universe. Hackensack, NJ: World Scientific, 2004, chapter 3. level:Graduate instructors:John McGreevy term:Fall 2008 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions description:This is a one-semester class about gauge/gravity duality (often called AdS/CFT) and its applications.
8.851 | Effective Field Theory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-851-effective-field-theory-spring-2013 | textbook:Weinberg, Steven. Chapter 18 in The Quantum Theory of Fields. Vol. 2. Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Peskin, Michael E., and Daniel V. Schroeder. Chapter 12 in An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory. Westview Press, 1995. textbook:For those needing a review of the SM look at:              Manohar, Aneesh Vasant, and Mark B. Wise. Chapter 1 in Heavy Quark Physics. Cambridge University Press, 2007. textbook:For the Dimensional Regularization read:              Collins, John C. Chapter 4 in Renormalization: An Introduction to Renormalization, the Renormalization Group, and the Operator-Product Expansion (Cambridge Monographs on Mathematical Physics). Cambridge University Press, 1984. textbook:Read the following to complement our Chiral Perturbation theory discussion this week:              Georgi, Howard. Section 2.6, and Chapter 5 in Weak Interactions and Modern Particle Theory. Benjamin/Cummings Publishing Company, 1984. textbook:Donoghue, John F., Eugene Golowich, and Barry R. Holstein. Dynamics of the Standard Model. Cambridge University Press, 1992, pp. 97–115. textbook:Readings from  Manohar, Aneesh Vasant, and Mark B. Wise. Heavy Quark Physics. Cambridge University Press, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Iain Stewart term:Spring 2013 features:Video lectures, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:Effective field theory is a fundamental framework to describe physical systems with quantum field theory. Part I of this course covers common tools used in effective theories. Part II is an in depth study of the Soft-Collinear Effective Theory (SCET), an effective theory for hard interactions in collider physics.
8.851 | Strong Interactions: Effective Field Theories of QCD | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-851-strong-interactions-effective-field-theories-of-qcd-spring-2006 | textbook:Manohar, Aneesh V., and Mark B. Wise. Heavy Quark Physics. Cambridge, UK; New York City, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2000. textbook:Georgi, H. Weak Interactions and Modern Particle Theory. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings Publishing Company, 1984. textbook:Donoghue, J. F., E. Golowich, and B. H. Holstein. Dynamics of the Standard Model. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Ellis, Stirling, and Webber. QCD and Collider Physics. New ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, December 4, 2003. textbook:Barger, and Phillips. Collider Physics. Boulder, CO; Oxford, England: Westview Press, 1996. textbook:Muta. Foundations of Quantum Chromodynamics. River Edge, NJ: World Scientific, 1998. textbook:Narison. QCD as a Theory of Hadrons. Cambridge, UK; New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. textbook:Peskin, M. E., and D. V. Schroeder. An Introduction to Quantum Field Theory. New York, NY: Harper Collins, June 1995. textbook:Pokorski, S. Gauge Field Theories. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, February 28, 2000. textbook:Collins, J. Renormalization: An Introduction to Renormalization, the Renormalization Group, and the Operator-product Expansion. Cambridge [Cambridgeshire], UK; New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1986, c1984. level:Graduate instructors:Iain Stewart term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes description:This is a course in the construction and application of effective field theories, which are the modern tool of choice in making predictions based on the Standard Model. Concepts such as matching, renormalization, the operator product expansion, power counting, and running with the renormalization group will be discussed. Topics will be taken from factorization in hard processes relevant for the LHC, heavy quark decays and CP violation, chiral perturbation theory, non-relativistic bound states in field theory (QED and QCD), nucleon effective theories with a fine-tuning, and possibly other subjects from QCD, electroweak physics, and gravity.
8.871 | Selected Topics in Theoretical Particle Physics: Branes and Gauge Theory Dynamics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-871-selected-topics-in-theoretical-particle-physics-branes-and-gauge-theory-dynamics-fall-2004 | textbook:Nakahara, Mikio. Geometry, Topology and Physics. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: Institute of Physics Publishing, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Amihay Hanany term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is an introduction to branes in string theory and their world volume dynamics. Instead of looking at the theory from the point of view of the world-sheet observer, we will approach the problem from the point of view of an observer which lives on a brane. Instead of writing down conformal field theory on the world-sheet and studying the properties of these theories, we will look at various branes in string theory and ask how the physics on their world-volume looks like.
8.901 | Astrophysics I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-901-astrophysics-i-spring-2006 | textbook:Hansen, Carl J., Steven D. Kawaler, and Virginia Trimble. Stellar Interiors: Physical Principles, Structure and Evolution. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. textbook:Carroll, Bradley W., and Dale A. Ostlie. An Introduction to Modern Astrophysics. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley Pub., 1995. textbook:Kippenhahn, Rudolf, and Alfred Weigert. Stellar Structure and Evolution. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1990. textbook:Shapiro, Stuart L., and Saul A. Teukolsky. Black Holes, White Dwarfs, and Neutron Stars. New York, NY: Wiley, 1983. level:Graduate instructors:Deepto Chakrabarty term:Spring 2006 features: description:This course provides a graduate-level introduction to stellar astrophysics. It covers a variety of topics, ranging from stellar structure and evolution to galactic dynamics and dark matter.
8.902 | Astrophysics II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-902-astrophysics-ii-fall-2004 | textbook:Binney, James, and Michael Merrifield. Galactic Astronomy. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 17 August 1998. textbook:Blandford, R. D., H. Netzer, and L. Woltjer. Active Galactic Nuclei. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1991. textbook:Krolik, Julian H. Active Galactic Nuclei. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 21 December 1998. textbook:Peacock, John A. Cosmological Physics. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 28 December 1998. textbook:Peebles, Phillip James Edwin. Physical Cosmology. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1971. textbook:———. Principles of Physical Cosmology. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 19 April 1993. textbook:Schneider, P., J. Ehlers, E. E. Falco, I. Appenzeller, G. Borner, M. Harwit, R. Kippenhahn, J. Lequeux, P. A. Strittmatter, and V. Trimble. Gravitational Lenses. Study ed. edition. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1 December 1999. textbook:Silk, Joseph. The Big Bang. 3rd ed. New York: W. H. Freeman, 2001. textbook:Weinberg, Steven. The First Three Minutes: A Modern View of the Origin of the Universe. 2nd/Update ed. New York: Basic Books, 1 June 1993. textbook:———. Gravitation and Cosmology: Principles and Applications of the General Theory of Relativity. New York: Wiley, July 1972. level:Graduate instructors:Paul Schechter term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This is the second course in a two-semester sequence on astrophysics. Topics include galactic dynamics, groups and clusters on galaxies, phenomenological cosmology, Newtonian cosmology, Roberston-Walker models, and galaxy formation.
8.942 | Cosmology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-942-cosmology-fall-2001 | textbook:The textbook readings are in:  Peacock, John A. Cosmological Physics. Cambridge University Press, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Edmund Bertschinger term:Fall 2001 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides an overview of astrophysical cosmology with emphasis on the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) radiation, galaxies and related phenomena at high redshift, and cosmic structure formation. Additional topics include cosmic inflation, nucleosynthesis and baryosynthesis, quasar (QSO) absorption lines, and gamma-ray bursts. Some background in general relativity is assumed.
8.952 | Particle Physics of the Early Universe | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-952-particle-physics-of-the-early-universe-fall-2004 | textbook:Peacock, John A. Cosmological Physics. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Frank Wilczek term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course covers the basics of general relativity, standard big bang cosmology, thermodynamics of the early universe, cosmic background radiation, primordial nucleosynthesis, basics of the standard model of particle physics, electroweak and QCD phase transition, basics of group theory, grand unified theories, baryon asymmetry, monopoles, cosmic strings, domain walls, axions, inflationary universe, and structure formation.
8.962 | General Relativity | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-962-general-relativity-spring-2006 | textbook:Carroll, Sean. An Introduction to General Relativity: Spacetime and Geometry. San Francisco, CA: Addison Wesley, 2003. textbook:Misner, Charles W., Kip S. Thorne, and John Archibald Wheeler. Gravitation. San Francisco, CA: W.H. Freeman, 1973. textbook:Schutz, Bernard. A First Course in General Relativity. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 1985. textbook:Hartle, James. Gravity: An introduction to Einstein's general relativity. San Francisco, CA: Addison-Wesley, 2002. textbook:Weinberg, Steven. Gravitation and Cosmology. New York, NY: Wiley, 1972. textbook:Wald, Robert. General relativity. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1984. textbook:Poisson, Eric. A Relativist's Toolkit. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Edmund Bertschinger,  Scott Hughes term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:8.962 is MIT's graduate course in general relativity, which covers the basic principles of Einstein's general theory of relativity, differential geometry, experimental tests of general relativity, black holes, and cosmology.
