PHYSICS100 | Introduction to Observational Astrophysics | http://PHYSICS100.stanford.edu | instructors:Allen, S. (PI) description:Designed for undergraduate physics majors but open to all students with a calculus-based physics background and some laboratory and coding experience. Students make and analyze observations using the telescopes at the Stanford Student Observatory. Topics covered include navigating the night sky, the physics of stars and galaxies, telescope instrumentation and operation, imaging and spectroscopic techniques, quantitative error analysis, and effective scientific communication. The course concludes with an independent project. Limited enrollment. Prerequisites: prior completion of Physics 40 or 60 series.
PHYSICS105 | Intermediate Physics Laboratory I: Analog Electronics | http://PHYSICS105.stanford.edu | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Analog electronics including Ohm's law, passive circuits and transistor and op amp circuits, emphasizing practical circuit design skills to prepare undergraduates for laboratory research. Short design project. Minimal use of math and physics, no electronics experience assumed beyond introductory physics. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 43 or  PHYSICS 63.
PHYSICS107 | Intermediate Physics Laboratory II: Experimental Techniques and Data Analysis | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS107 | instructors:Schleier-Smith, M. (PI) description:Experiments on lasers, Gaussian optics, and atom-light interaction, with emphasis on data and error analysis techniques. Students describe a subset of experiments in scientific paper format. Prerequisites: completion of PHYSICS 40 or PHYSICS 60 series, and PHYSICS 70 and PHYSICS 105. Recommended pre- or corequisites: PHYSICS 120 and 130. WIM
PHYSICS108 | Advanced Physics Laboratory: Project | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS108 | instructors:Goldhaber-Gordon, D. (PI) description:Small student groups plan, design, build, and carry out a single experimental project in low-temperature physics. Prerequisites PHYSICS 105, PHYSICS 107.
PHYSICS110 | Advanced Mechanics (PHYSICS 210) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS110 | instructors:Hartnoll, S. (PI) description:Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics. Principle of least action, Euler-Lagrange equations.  Small oscillations and beyond.  Symmetries, canonical transformations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, action-angle variables.  Introduction to classical field theory.  Selected other topics, including nonlinear dynamical systems, attractors, chaotic motion.  Undergraduates register for Physics 110 (4 units). Graduates register for Physics 210 (3 units).  Prerequisites: MATH 131P, and PHYSICS 112 or MATH elective 104 or higher.  Recommended prerequisite: PHYSICS 130.
PHYSICS112 | Mathematical Methods of Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS112 | instructors:Kachru, S. (PI) description:Theory of complex variables, complex functions, and complex analysis. Fourier series and Fourier transforms. Special functions such as Laguerre, Legendre, and Hermite polynomials, and Bessel functions. The uses of Green's functions. Covers material of MATH 106 and MATH 132 most pertinent to Physics majors. Prerequisites: MATH 50 or 50H series, and MATH 131P or MATH 173.
PHYSICS113 | Computational Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS113 | instructors:Abel, T. (PI) description:Numerical methods for solving problems in mechanics, astrophysics, electromagnetism, quantum mechanics, and statistical mechanics. Methods include numerical integration; solutions of ordinary and partial differential equations; solutions of the diffusion equation, Laplace's equation and Poisson's equation with various methods; statistical methods including Monte Carlo techniques; matrix methods and eigenvalue problems. Short introduction to Python, used for class examples; class projects may be programmed in any language such as C, python or julia. No Prerequisites. Previous programming experience not required.
PHYSICS120 | Intermediate Electricity and Magnetism I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS120 | instructors:Hogan, J. (PI) description:Vector analysis. Electrostatic fields, including boundary-value problems and multipole expansion. Dielectrics, static and variable magnetic fields, magnetic materials. Maxwell's equations. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 43 or PHYS 63; MATH 52 and MATH 53. Pre- or corequisite: MATH 131P or MATH 173. Recommended corequisite: PHYS 112.
PHYSICS121 | Intermediate Electricity and Magnetism II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS121 | instructors:Hogan, J. (PI) description:Conservation laws and electromagnetic waves, Poynting's theorem, tensor formulation, potentials and fields.  Plane wave problems (free space, conductors and dielectric materials, boundaries). Dipole and quadruple radiation. Special relativity and transformation between electric and magnetic fields.  Prerequisites: PHYS 120 and MATH 131P or MATH 173; Recommended: PHYS 112.
PHYSICS130 | Quantum Mechanics I | http://PHYSICS130.stanford.edu | instructors:Burchat, P. (PI) description:The origins of quantum mechanics and wave mechanics.  Schrödinger equation and solutions for one-dimensional systems. Commutation relations. Generalized uncertainty principle. Time-energy uncertainty principle. Separation of variables and solutions for three-dimensional systems; application to hydrogen atom.  Spherically symmetric potentials and angular momentum eigenstates. Spin angular momentum.  Addition of angular momentum. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 65 or PHYSICS 70 and MATH 131P or MATH 173. MATH 173 can be taken concurrently. Pre- or corequisites: PHYSICS 120.
PHYSICS131 | Quantum Mechanics II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS131 | instructors:Hartnoll, S. (PI) description:Identical particles; Fermi and Bose statistics. Time-independent perturbation theory. Fine structure, the Zeeman effect and hyperfine splitting in the hydrogen atom. Time-dependent perturbation theory. Variational principle and WKB approximation.  Prerequisite: PHYSICS 120, PHYSICS 130, MATH 131P, or MATH 173.  Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 121.
PHYSICS134 | Advanced Topics in Quantum Mechanics (PHYSICS 234) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS134 | instructors:Hayden, P. (PI) description:Scattering theory, partial wave expansion, Born approximation. Additional topics may include nature of quantum measurement, EPR paradox, Bell's inequality, and topics in quantum information science; path integrals and applications; Berry's phase; structure of multi-electron atoms (Hartree-Fock); relativistic quantum mechanics (Dirac equation). Undergraduates register for PHYSICS 134 (4 units). Graduate students register for PHYSICS 234 (3 units).  Prerequisite:  PHYSICS 131.
PHYSICS15 | Stars and Planets in a Habitable Universe | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS15 | instructors:Macintosh, B. (PI) description:Is the Earth unique in our galaxy? Students learn how stars and our galaxy have evolved and how this produces planets and the conditions suitable for life. Discussion of the motion of the night sky and how telescopes collect and analyze light. The life-cycle of stars from birth to death, and the end products of that life cycle -- from dense stellar corpses to supernova explosions. Course covers recent discoveries of extrasolar planets -- those orbiting stars beyond our sun -- and the ultimate quest for other Earths. Intended to be accessible to non-science majors, material is explored quantitatively with problem sets using basic algebra and numerical estimates. Sky observing exercise and observatory field trips supplement the classroom work.
PHYSICS152 | Introduction to Particle Physics I (PHYSICS 252) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS152 | instructors:Tompkins, L. (PI) description:Elementary particles and the fundamental forces. Quarks and leptons. The mediators of the electromagnetic, weak and strong interactions. Interaction of particles with matter; particle acceleration, and detection techniques. Symmetries and conservation laws. Bound states. Decay rates. Cross sections. Feynman diagrams. Introduction to Feynman integrals. The Dirac equation. Feynman rules for quantum electrodynamics and for chromodynamics. Undergraduates register for PHYSICS 152.  Graduate students register for PHYSICS 252.  (Graduate students will be required to complete additional assignments in a format determined by the instructor.)  Prerequisite: PHYSICS 130. Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 131.
PHYSICS16 | The Origin and Development of the Cosmos | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS16 | instructors:Wechsler, R. (PI) description:How did the present Universe come to be? The last few decades have seen remarkable progress in understanding this age-old question. Course will cover the history of the Universe from its earliest moments to the present day, and the physical laws that govern its evolution.  The early Universe including inflation and the creation of matter and the elements.  Recent discoveries in our understanding of the makeup of the cosmos, including dark matter and dark energy.  Evolution of galaxies, clusters, and quasars, and the Universe as a whole.  Implications of dark matter and dark energy for the future evolution of the cosmos. Intended to be accessible to non-science majors, material is explored quantitatively with problem sets using basic algebra and numerical estimates.
PHYSICS160 | Introduction to Stellar and Galactic Astrophysics (PHYSICS 260) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS160 | instructors:Macintosh, B. (PI) description:Observed characteristics of stars and the Milky Way galaxy. Physical processes in stars and matter under extreme conditions. Structure and evolution of stars from birth to death. White dwarfs, planetary nebulae, supernovae, neutron stars, pulsars, binary stars, x-ray stars, and black holes. Galactic structure, interstellar medium, molecular clouds, HI and HII regions, star formation, and element abundances. Undergraduates register for PHYSICS 160. Graduate students register for PHYSICS 260.  (Graduate students will be required to complete additional assignments in a format determined by the instructor.)  Prerequisite: PHYSICS 121.
PHYSICS161 | Introduction to Cosmology and Extragalactic Astrophysics (PHYSICS 261) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS161 | instructors:Graham, P. (PI); Michelson, P. (PI) description:What do we know about the physical origins, content, and evolution of the Universe -- and how do we know it? Students learn how cosmological distances and times, and the geometry and expansion of space, are described and measured. Composition of the Universe. Origin of matter and the elements. Observational evidence for dark matter and dark energy. Thermal history of the Universe, from inflation to the present. Emergence of large-scale structure from quantum perturbations in the early Universe. Astrophysical tools used to learn about the Universe.  Big open questions in cosmology.  Undergraduates register for Physics 161. Graduates register for Physics 261. (Graduate students will be required to complete additional assignments in a format determined by the instructor.) Prerequisite: PHYSICS 121 or equivalent.
PHYSICS17 | Black Holes and Extreme Astrophysics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS17 | instructors: description:Black holes represent an extreme frontier of astrophysics. Course will explore the most fundamental and universal force -- gravity -- and how it controls the fate of astrophysical objects, leading in some cases to black holes. How we discover and determine the properties of black holes and their environment. How black holes and their event horizons are used to guide thinking about mysterious phenomena such as Hawking radiation, wormholes, and quantum entanglement. How black holes generate gravitational waves and powerful jets of particles and radiation. Other extreme objects such as pulsars. Relevant physics, including relativity, is introduced and treated at the algebraic level. No prior physics or calculus is required, although some deep thinking about space, time, and matter is important in working through assigned problems.
PHYSICS170 | Thermodynamics, Kinetic Theory, and Statistical Mechanics I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS170 | instructors:Schleier-Smith, M. (PI) description:Basic probability and statistics for random processes such as random walks. The derivation of laws of thermodynamics from basic postulates; the determination of the relationship between atomic substructure and macroscopic behavior of matter.  Temperature; equations of state, heat, internal energy, equipartition; entropy, Gibbs paradox; equilibrium and reversibility; heat engines; applications to various properties of matter; absolute zero and low-temperature phenomena.  Distribution functions, fluctuations, the partition function for classical and quantum systems, irreversible processes.  Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 130.
PHYSICS171 | Thermodynamics, Kinetic Theory, and Statistical Mechanics II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS171 | instructors:Kapitulnik, A. (PI) description:Mean-field theory of phase transitions; critical exponents. Ferromagnetism, the Ising model. The renormalization group. Dynamics near equilibrium: Brownian motion, diffusion, Boltzmann equations. Other topics at discretion of instructor. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 170.  Recommended pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 130.
PHYSICS172 | Solid State Physics (APPPHYS 272) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS172 | instructors:Hwang, H. (PI); Kivelson, S. (PI) description:Introduction to the properties of solids. Crystal structures and bonding in materials. Momentum-space analysis and diffraction probes. Lattice dynamics, phonon theory and measurements, thermal properties. Electronic structure theory, classical and quantum; free, nearly-free, and tight-binding limits.  Electron dynamics and basic transport properties; quantum oscillations. Properties and applications of semiconductors. Reduced-dimensional systems. Undergraduates should register for PHYSICS 172 and graduate students for APPPHYS 272.  Prerequisites: PHYSICS 170 and PHYSICS 171, or equivalents.
PHYSICS18N | Frontiers in Theoretical Physics and Cosmology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS18N | instructors:Kuo, C. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The course will begin with a description of the current standard models of gravitation, cosmology, and elementary particle physics.  We will then focus on frontiers of current understanding including investigations of very early universe cosmology, string theory, and the physics of black holes.
PHYSICS190 | Independent Research and Study | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS190 | instructors:Abel, T. (PI); Alonso, J. (PI); Baer, T. (PI); Blandford, R. (PI); Block, S. (PI); Bucksbaum, P. (PI); Burchat, P. (PI); Burke, D. (PI); Cabrera, B. (PI); Chang, H. (PI); Diehn, M. (PI); Dimopoulos, S. (PI); Doniach, S. (PI); Drell, P. (PI); Fisher, G. (PI); Fisher, I. (PI); Goldhaber-Gordon, D. (PI); Gratta, G. (PI); Hartnoll, S. (PI); Hayden, P. (PI); Hollberg, L. (PI); Irwin, K. (PI); Kachru, S. (PI); Kapitulnik, A. (PI); Kasevich, M. (PI); Kuo, C. (PI); Lev, B. (PI); Lipa, J. (PI); Macintosh, B. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); Maxim, P. (PI); McGehee, M. (PI); Moler, K. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Pande, V. (PI); Perl, M. (PI); Petrosian, V. (PI); Raghu, S. (PI); Raubenheimer, T. (PI); Romani, R. (PI); Roodman, A. (PI); Scherrer, P. (PI); Schindler, R. (PI); Schleier-Smith, M. (PI); Schwartzman, A. (PI); Su, D. (PI); Susskind, L. (PI); Suzuki, Y. (PI); Tantawi, S. (PI); Vasy, A. (PI); Wacker, J. (PI); Wagoner, R. (PI); Wechsler, R. (PI); Wieman, C. (PI) description:Undergraduate research in experimental or theoretical physics under the supervision of a faculty member. Prerequisites: superior work as an undergraduate Physics major and consent of instructor.
PHYSICS199 | The Physics of Energy and Climate Change | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS199 | instructors:Chu, S. (PI) description:Topics include measurements of temperature and sea level changes in the climate record of the Earth, satellite atmospheric spectroscopy, satellite gravity geodesy measurements of changes in water aquifers and glaciers, and ocean changes. The difference between weather fluctuations changes and climate change, climate models and their uncertainties in the context of physical, chemical and biological feedback mechanisms to changes in greenhouse gases and solar insolation will be discussed. Energy efficiency, transmission and distribution of electricity, energy storage, and the physics of harnessing fossil, wind, solar, geothermal, fission and fusion will be covered, along with prospects of future technological developments in energy use and production.
PHYSICS205 | Senior Thesis Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS205 | instructors:Alonso, J. (PI); Baer, T. (PI); Beasley, M. (PI); Bloom, E. (PI); Bucksbaum, P. (PI); Burchat, P. (PI); Cabrera, B. (PI); Cappelli, M. (PI); Church, S. (PI); Colby, E. (PI); Dimopoulos, S. (PI); Doniach, S. (PI); Drell, P. (PI); Everitt, C. (PI); Fisher, I. (PI); Goldhaber-Gordon, D. (PI); Graham, P. (PI); Gratta, G. (PI); Hartnoll, S. (PI); Hayden, P. (PI); Hollberg, L. (PI); Irwin, K. (PI); Kachru, S. (PI); Kasevich, M. (PI); Laughlin, R. (PI); Lev, B. (PI); Mabuchi, H. (PI); Macintosh, B. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McGehee, M. (PI); Moler, K. (PI); Osheroff, D. (PI); Pande, V. (PI); Partridge, R. (PI); Perl, M. (PI); Peskin, M. (PI); Petrosian, V. (PI); Qi, X. (PI); Raubenheimer, T. (PI); Romani, R. (PI); Roodman, A. (PI); Safavi-Naeini, A. (PI); Scherrer, P. (PI); Schleier-Smith, M. (PI); Schwartzman, A. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Susskind, L. (PI); Wacker, J. (PI); Wagoner, R. (PI); Wechsler, R. (PI); Wieman, C. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI) description:Long-term experimental or theoretical project and thesis in Physics under supervision of a faculty member.  Planning of the thesis project is recommended to begin as early as middle of the junior year. Successful completion of a senior thesis requires a minimum of 3 units for a letter grade completed during the senior year, along with the other formal thesis and physics major requirements.  Students doing research for credit prior to senior year should sign up for Physics 190.  Prerequisites: superior work as an undergraduate Physics major and approval of the thesis application.
PHYSICS21 | Mechanics, Fluids, and Heat | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS21 | instructors:Romani, R. (PI) description:How are the motions of objects and the behavior of fluids and gases determined by the laws of physics? Students learn to describe the motion of objects (kinematics) and understand why objects move as they do (dynamics). Emphasis on how Newton's three laws of motion are applied to solids, liquids, and gases to describe phenomena as diverse as spinning gymnasts, blood flow, and sound waves. Understanding many-particle systems requires connecting macroscopic properties (e.g., temperature and pressure) to microscopic dynamics (collisions of particles). Laws of thermodynamics provide understanding of real-world phenomena such as energy conversion and performance limits of heat engines. Everyday examples are analyzed using tools of algebra and trigonometry. Problem-solving skills are developed, including verifying that derived results satisfy criteria for correctness, such as dimensional consistency and expected behavior in limiting cases. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and interactive group problem solving in discussion sections. Prerequisite: high school algebra and trigonometry; calculus not required.
PHYSICS210 | Advanced Mechanics (PHYSICS 110) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS210 | instructors:Hartnoll, S. (PI) description:Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanics. Principle of least action, Euler-Lagrange equations.  Small oscillations and beyond.  Symmetries, canonical transformations, Hamilton-Jacobi theory, action-angle variables.  Introduction to classical field theory.  Selected other topics, including nonlinear dynamical systems, attractors, chaotic motion.  Undergraduates register for Physics 110 (4 units). Graduates register for Physics 210 (3 units).  Prerequisites: MATH 131P, and PHYSICS 112 or MATH elective 104 or higher.  Recommended prerequisite: PHYSICS 130.
PHYSICS211 | Continuum Mechanics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS211 | instructors:Blandford, R. (PI) description:Elasticity, fluids, turbulence, waves, gas dynamics, shocks, and MHD plasmas. Examples from everyday phenomena, geophysics, and astrophysics.
PHYSICS212 | Statistical Mechanics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS212 | instructors:Shenker, S. (PI) description:Principles, ensembles, statistical equilibrium. Thermodynamic functions, ideal and near-ideal gases. Fluctuations. Mean-field description of phase-transitions and associated critical exponents. One-dimensional Ising model and other exact solutions. Renormalization and scaling relations. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 131, 171, or equivalents.
PHYSICS216 | Back of the Envelope Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS216 | instructors:Madejski, G. (PI) description:Techniques such as scaling and dimensional analysis, useful to make order-of-magnitude estimates of physical effects in different settings. Goals are to promote a synthesis of physics through solving problems, including problems that are not usually thought of as physics. Applications include properties of materials, fluid mechanics, geophysics, astrophysics, and cosmology. Prerequisites: undergraduate mechanics, statistical mechanics, electricity and magnetism, and quantum mechanics.
PHYSICS21S | Mechanics, Fluids, and Heat with Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS21S | instructors:Betre, K. (PI) description:How are the motions of objects and the behavior of fluids and gases determined by the laws of physics? Students learn to describe the motion of objects (kinematics) and understand why objects move as they do (dynamics). Emphasis on how Newton's three laws of motion are applied to solids, liquids, and gases to describe phenomena as diverse as spinning gymnasts, blood flow, and sound waves. Understanding many-particle systems requires connecting macroscopic properties (e.g., temperature and pressure) to microscopic dynamics (collisions of particles). Laws of thermodynamics provide understanding of real-world phenomena such as energy conversion and performance limits of heat engines. Everyday examples are analyzed using tools of algebra and trigonometry. Problem-solving skills are developed, including verifying that derived results satisfy criteria for correctness, such as dimensional consistency and expected behavior in limiting cases. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and interactive group problem solving in discussion sections. Labs are an integrated part of the summer course.  Prerequisite: high school algebra and trigonometry; calculus not required.
PHYSICS22 | Mechanics, Fluids, and Heat Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS22 | instructors:Romani, R. (PI) description:Guided  hands-on exploration of concepts in classical mechanics, fluids, and thermodynamics with an emphasis on student predictions, observations and explanations.  Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 21.
PHYSICS220 | Classical Electrodynamics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS220 | instructors:Susskind, L. (PI) description:Special relativity: The principles of relativity, Lorentz transformations, four vectors and tensors, relativistic mechanics and the principle of least action. Lagrangian formulation, charges in electromagnetic fields, gauge invariance, the electromagnetic field tensor, covariant equations of electrodynamics and mechanics, four-current and continuity equation. Noether's theorem and conservation laws, Poynting's theorem, stress-energy tensor.  Constant electromagnetic fields: conductors and dielectrics, magnetic media, electric and magnetic forces, and energy.  Electromagnetic waves: Plane and monochromatic waves, spectral resolution, polarization, electromagnetic properties of matter, dispersion relations, wave guides and cavities.  Prerequisites: PHYSICS 121 and PHYSICS 210, or equivalent; MATH 106 or MATH 116, and MATH 132 or equivalent.
PHYSICS23 | Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS23 | instructors:Linde, A. (PI) description:How are electric and magnetic fields generated by static and moving charges, and what are their applications? How is light related to electromagnetic waves? Students learn to represent and analyze electric and magnetic fields to understand electric circuits, motors, and generators. The wave nature of light is used to explain interference, diffraction, and polarization phenomena. Geometric optics is employed to understand how lenses and mirrors form images. These descriptions are combined to understand the workings and limitations of optical systems such as the eye, corrective vision, cameras, telescopes, and microscopes. Discussions based on the language of algebra and trigonometry. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and interactive group problem solving in discussion sections.  Prerequisite: PHYSICS 21 or PHYSICS 21S.
PHYSICS230 | Graduate Quantum Mechanics I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS230 | instructors:Hayden, P. (PI) description:Fundamental concepts. Introduction to Hilbert spaces and Dirac's notation. Postulates applied to simple systems, including those with periodic structure. Symmetry operations and gauge transformation. The path integral formulation of quantum statistical mechanics. Problems related to measurement theory. The quantum theory of angular momenta and central potential problems. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 131 or equivalent.
PHYSICS231 | Graduate Quantum Mechanics II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS231 | instructors:Shenker, S. (PI) description:Basis for higher level courses on atomic solid state and particle physics.  Problems related to measurement theory and introduction to quantum computing.  Approximation methods for time-independent and time-dependent perturbations. Semiclassical and quantum theory of radiation, second quantization of radiation and matter fields. Systems of identical particles and many electron atoms and molecules. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 230.
PHYSICS234 | Advanced Topics in Quantum Mechanics (PHYSICS 134) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS234 | instructors:Hayden, P. (PI) description:Scattering theory, partial wave expansion, Born approximation. Additional topics may include nature of quantum measurement, EPR paradox, Bell's inequality, and topics in quantum information science; path integrals and applications; Berry's phase; structure of multi-electron atoms (Hartree-Fock); relativistic quantum mechanics (Dirac equation). Undergraduates register for PHYSICS 134 (4 units). Graduate students register for PHYSICS 234 (3 units).  Prerequisite:  PHYSICS 131.
PHYSICS23S | Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics with Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS23S | instructors:Betre, K. (PI) description:How are electric and magnetic fields generated by static and moving charges, and what are their applications? How is light related to electromagnetic waves? Students learn to represent and analyze electric and magnetic fields to understand electric circuits, motors, and generators. The wave nature of light is used to explain interference, diffraction, and polarization phenomena. Geometric optics is employed to understand how lenses and mirrors form images. These descriptions are combined to understand the workings and limitations of optical systems such as the eye, corrective vision, cameras, telescopes, and microscopes. Discussions based on the language of algebra and trigonometry. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and interactive group problem solving in discussion sections. Labs are an integrated part of the summer courses.  Prerequisite: PHYSICS 21 or PHYSICS 21S.
PHYSICS24 | Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS24 | instructors:Linde, A. (PI) description:Guided hands-on exploration of concepts in electricity and magnetism, circuits and optics with an emphasis on student predictions, observations and explanations.  Introduction to multimeters and oscilloscopes. Pre- or corequisite: PHYS 23.
PHYSICS240 | Introduction to the Physics of Energy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS240 | instructors:Laughlin, R. (PI) description:Energy as a consumable.  Forms and interconvertability.  World Joule budget.  Equivalents in rivers, oil pipelines and nuclear weapons. Quantum mechanics of fire, batteries and fuel cells. Hydrocarbon and hydrogen synthesis. Fundamental limits to mechanical, electrical and magnetic strengths of materials. Flywheels, capacitors and high pressure tanks. Principles of AC and DC power transmission. Impossibility of pure electricity storage. Surge and peaking. Solar constant.  Photovoltaic and thermal solar conversion.  Physical limits on agriculture.
PHYSICS241 | Introduction to Nuclear Energy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS241 | instructors:Laughlin, R. (PI) description:Radioactivity.  Elementary nuclear processes. Energetics of fission and fusion. Cross-sections and resonances. Fissionable and fertile isotopes. Neutron budgets. Light water, heavy water and graphite reactors.  World nuclear energy production.  World reserves of uranium and thorium. Plutonium, reprocessing and proliferation. Half lives of fission decay products and actinides made by neutron capture. Nuclear waste.  Three Mile Island and Chernobyl.  Molten sodium breeders. Generation-IV reactors. Inertial confinement and magnetic fusion.  Laser compression. Fast neutron production and fission-fusion hybrids. Prerequisities: Strong undergraduate background in elementary chemistry and physics.  PHYSICS 240 and PHYSICS 252 recommended but not required. Interested undergraduates encouraged to enroll, with permission of instructor.
PHYSICS25 | Modern Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS25 | instructors:Irwin, K. (PI) description:How do the discoveries since the dawn of the 20th century impact our understanding of 21st-century physics? This course introduces the foundations of modern physics: Einstein's theory of special relativity and quantum mechanics. Combining the language of physics with tools from algebra and trigonometry, students gain insights into how the universe works on both the smallest and largest scales. Topics may include atomic, molecular, and laser physics; semiconductors; elementary particles and the fundamental forces; nuclear physics (fission, fusion, and radioactivity); astrophysics and cosmology (the contents and evolution of the universe). Emphasis on applications of modern physics in everyday life, progress made in our understanding of the universe, and open questions that are the subject of active research. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and interactive group problem solving in discussion sections. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 23 or PHYSICS 23S.
PHYSICS252 | Introduction to Particle Physics I (PHYSICS 152) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS252 | instructors:Tompkins, L. (PI) description:Elementary particles and the fundamental forces. Quarks and leptons. The mediators of the electromagnetic, weak and strong interactions. Interaction of particles with matter; particle acceleration, and detection techniques. Symmetries and conservation laws. Bound states. Decay rates. Cross sections. Feynman diagrams. Introduction to Feynman integrals. The Dirac equation. Feynman rules for quantum electrodynamics and for chromodynamics. Undergraduates register for PHYSICS 152.  Graduate students register for PHYSICS 252.  (Graduate students will be required to complete additional assignments in a format determined by the instructor.)  Prerequisite: PHYSICS 130. Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 131.
PHYSICS26 | Modern Physics Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS26 | instructors:Irwin, K. (PI) description:Guided hands-on and simulation-based exploration of concepts in modern physics, including special relativity, quantum mechanics and nuclear physics with an emphasis on student predictions, observations and explanations. Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 25.
PHYSICS260 | Introduction to Stellar and Galactic Astrophysics (PHYSICS 160) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS260 | instructors:Macintosh, B. (PI) description:Observed characteristics of stars and the Milky Way galaxy. Physical processes in stars and matter under extreme conditions. Structure and evolution of stars from birth to death. White dwarfs, planetary nebulae, supernovae, neutron stars, pulsars, binary stars, x-ray stars, and black holes. Galactic structure, interstellar medium, molecular clouds, HI and HII regions, star formation, and element abundances. Undergraduates register for PHYSICS 160. Graduate students register for PHYSICS 260.  (Graduate students will be required to complete additional assignments in a format determined by the instructor.)  Prerequisite: PHYSICS 121.
PHYSICS261 | Introduction to Cosmology and Extragalactic Astrophysics (PHYSICS 161) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS261 | instructors:Graham, P. (PI); Michelson, P. (PI) description:What do we know about the physical origins, content, and evolution of the Universe -- and how do we know it? Students learn how cosmological distances and times, and the geometry and expansion of space, are described and measured. Composition of the Universe. Origin of matter and the elements. Observational evidence for dark matter and dark energy. Thermal history of the Universe, from inflation to the present. Emergence of large-scale structure from quantum perturbations in the early Universe. Astrophysical tools used to learn about the Universe.  Big open questions in cosmology.  Undergraduates register for Physics 161. Graduates register for Physics 261. (Graduate students will be required to complete additional assignments in a format determined by the instructor.) Prerequisite: PHYSICS 121 or equivalent.
PHYSICS262 | General Relativity | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS262 | instructors:Graham, P. (PI) description:Einstein's General Theory of Relativity is a basis for modern ideas of fundamental physics, including string theory, as well as for studies of cosmology and astrophysics. The course begins with an overview of special relativity, and the description of gravity as arising from curved space.  From Riemannian geometry and the geodesic equations, to curvature, the energy-momentum tensor, and the Einstein field equations. Applications of General Relativity: topics may include experimental tests of General Relativity and the weak-field limit, black holes (Schwarzschild, charged Reissner-Nordstrom, and rotating Kerr black holes), gravitational waves (including detection methods), and an introduction to cosmology (including cosmic microwave background radiation, dark energy, and experimental probes). Prerequisite: PHYSICS 121 or equivalent including special relativity.
PHYSICS269 | Neutrinos in Astrophysics and Cosmology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS269 | instructors: description:Basic neutrino properties. Flavor evolution in vacuum and in matter.  Oscillations of atmospheric, reactor and beam neutrinos. Measurements of solar neutrinos; physics of level-crossing and the resolution of the solar neutrino problem. Roles of neutrinos in stellar evolution; bounds from stellar cooling. Neutrinos and stellar collapse; energy transport, collective flavor oscillations, neutrino flavor in turbulent medium. Ultra-high-energy neutrinos. The cosmic neutrino background, its impact on the cosmic microwave background and structure formation; cosmological bounds on the neutrino sector.  Prerequisites/corerequisites: PHYSICS 121, 131 and 171 or equivalent. PHYS 230-231, 152 and 161 or equivalent are helpful, but not required. May be repeat for credit
PHYSICS282 | Introduction to Modern Atomic Physics and Quantum Optics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS282 | instructors:Lev, B. (PI) description:Introduction to modern atomic physics, including laser cooling and trapping, collisions, ultracold and quantum gases, optical lattices, entanglement, and ion trap quantum gates.  Introduction to quantum optical theory of light and atom-photon interactions, including cavity QED, quantum trajectory theory, nonlinear optics, and fundamentals of laser spectroscopy including frequency combs.  Prerequisites: PHYSICS 131 or 134 and 171.
PHYSICS290 | Research Activities at Stanford | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS290 | instructors:Shen, Z. (PI) description:Required of first-year Physics graduate students; suggested for junior or senior Physics majors for 1 unit. Review of research activities in the department and elsewhere at Stanford at a level suitable for entering graduate students.
PHYSICS291 | Practical Training | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS291 | instructors:Blandford, R. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Goldhaber-Gordon, D. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Huang, Z. (PI); Huberman, B. (PI); Kallosh, R. (PI); Mao, W. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Wong, H. (PI) description:Opportunity for practical training in industrial labs. Arranged by student with the research adviser's approval. A brief summary of activities is required, approved by the research adviser.
PHYSICS293 | Literature of Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS293 | instructors:Blandford, R. (PI); Bucksbaum, P. (PI); Burchat, P. (PI); Cabrera, B. (PI); Petrosian, V. (PI); Romani, R. (PI) description:Study of the literature of any special topic. Preparation, presentation of reports. If taken under the supervision of a faculty member outside the department, approval of the Physics chair required. Prerequisites: 25 units of college physics, consent of instructor.
PHYSICS294 | Teaching of Physics Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS294 | instructors:Nanavati, C. (PI) description:Weekly seminar/discussions on interactive techniques for teaching physics. Practicum which includes class observations, grading and student teaching in current courses. Required of all Teaching Assistants prior to first teaching assignment. Mandatory attendance at weekly in-class sessions during first 5 weeks of the quarter; mandatory successful completion of all practicum activities.  Enrollment by permission ¿ email resume/CV, most recent undergraduate and graduate transcripts, and brief statement explaining why you would like to take the course to elva@stanford.edu for permission #.
PHYSICS295 | Learning & Teaching of Science (EDUC 280) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS295 | instructors:Wieman, C. (PI) description:This course will provide students with a basic knowledge of the relevant research in cognitive psychology and science education and the ability to apply that knowledge to enhance their ability to learn and teach science, particularly at the undergraduate level.  Course will involve readings, discussion, and application of the ideas through creation of learning activities.  It is suitable for advanced undergraduates and graduate students with some science background.
PHYSICS301 | Astrophysics Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS301 | instructors:Allen, S. (PI) description:Open to all graduate students with a calculus-based physics background and some laboratory experience.  Students make and analyze observations using telescopes at the Stanford Student Observatory. Topics include navigating the night sky, the physics of stars and galaxies, telescope instrumentation and operation, quantitative error analysis, and effective scientific communication. The course also introduces a number of hot topics in astrophysics and cosmology. Limited enrollment.
PHYSICS330 | Quantum Field Theory I | http://PHYSICS330.stanford.edu | instructors:Senatore, L. (PI) description:Lorentz Invariance. S-Matrix. Quantization of scalar and Dirac fields. Feynman diagrams. Quantum electrodynamics. Elementary electrodynamic processes: Compton scattering; e+e- annihilation. Loop diagrams. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 130, PHYSICS 131, or equivalents AND a basic knowledge of Group Theory.
PHYSICS331 | Quantum Field Theory II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS331 | instructors:Peskin, M. (PI) description:Functional integral methods. Local gauge invariance and Yang-Mills fields. Asymptotic freedom. Spontaneous symmetry breaking and the Higgs mechanism. Unified models of weak and electromagnetic interactions. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 330.
PHYSICS332 | Quantum Field Theory III | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS332 | instructors:Kallosh, R. (PI) description:Theory of renormalization. The renormalization group and applications to the theory of phase transitions. Renormalization of Yang-Mills theories. Applications of the renormalization group of quantum chromodynamics. Perturbation theory anomalies. Applications to particle phenomenology. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 331.
PHYSICS351 | Standard Model of Particle Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS351 | instructors:Dimopoulos, S. (PI) description:Symmetries, group theory, gauge invariance, Lagrangian of the Standard Model, flavor group, flavor-changing neutral currents, CKM quark mixing matrix, GIM mechanism, rare processes, neutrino masses, seesaw mechanism, QCD confinement and chiral symmetry breaking, instantons, strong CP problem, QCD axion. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 330.
PHYSICS366 | Special Topics in Astrophysics: Statistical Methods | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS366 | instructors: description:Existing and emerging statistical techniques and their application to astronomical surveys and cosmological data analysis. Topics covered will include statistical frameworks (Bayesian inference and frequentist statistics), numerical methods including Markov Chain Monte Carlo, and machine learning applied to classification and regression. Hands on activities based on open-source software in python. Recommended prerequisites: PHYSICS 260 and 261, or equivalent. Familiarity with Python coding and basic statistics at level of STATS 116. This course runs for the first five weeks of the quarter.
PHYSICS367 | Special Topics in Astrophysics: Experimental Methods in Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS367 | instructors:Akerib, D. (PI); Shutt, T. (PI) description:Experimental methods in particle physics, particle astrophysics and cosmology. The course will cover detector fundamentals including the passage of radiation through matter, signal production and collection in detector media, and front-end electronics, with a focus on the fundamental limits of technology.  The course will include case studies of specific experiments chosen to illustrate a range of experimental techniques, what the underlying physics questions are and how they are probed with the instrumentation.  A typical case study will include instrumentation papers that describe the detector design and a physics results paper that elucidates how the measurement follows from the detector capabilities. Students will make an oral presentation on an experiment, covering both the design of the experiment, and a science result that exploits the apparatus.
PHYSICS372 | Condensed Matter Theory I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS372 | instructors:Kivelson, S. (PI) description:Fermi liquid theory, many-body perturbation theory, response function, functional integrals, interaction of electrons with impurities. Prerequisite: APPPHYS 273 or equivalent.
PHYSICS373 | Condensed Matter Theory II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS373 | instructors:Qi, X. (PI) description:Superfluidity and superconductivity. Quantum magnetism. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 372.
PHYSICS41 | Mechanics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS41 | instructors:Lee, Y. (PI) description:How are motions of objects in the physical world determined by laws of physics? Students learn to describe the motion of objects (kinematics) and then understand why motions have the form they do (dynamics). Emphasis on how the important physical principles in mechanics, such as conservation of momentum and energy for translational and rotational motion, follow from just three laws of nature: Newton's laws of motion. Distinction made between fundamental laws of nature and empirical rules that are useful approximations for more complex physics. Problems drawn from examples of mechanics in everyday life. Skills developed in verifying that derived results satisfy criteria for correctness, such as dimensional consistency and expected behavior in limiting cases. Discussions based on language of mathematics, particularly vector representations and operations, and calculus. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and discussion sections based on interactive group problem solving. Prerequisite: High school physics or concurrent enrollment in PHYSICS 41A.  MATH 20 or MATH 41 or MATH 51 or CME 100 or equivalent. Minimum corequisite: MATH 21 or MATH 42 or equivalent.
PHYSICS41A | Mechanics Concepts, Calculations, and Context | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS41A | instructors:Drell, P. (PI); Wieman, C. (PI) description:Additional assistance and applications for PHYSICS 41.  In-class problems in physics and engineering. Exercises in the concepts and calculations of vectors, translational and rotational velocity and acceleration, equations of motion for particles and rigid bodies, and principles of energy and linear/angular momentum. In-class participation required. Highly recommended for students with limited or no high school physics or calculus.  Co-requisite: PHYSICS 41.
PHYSICS42 | Classical Mechanics Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS42 | instructors:Michelson, P. (PI) description:Hands-on exploration of concepts in classical mechanics: Newton's laws, conservation laws, rotational motion.  Introduction to laboratory  techniques, experimental equipment and data analysis.  Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 41
PHYSICS43 | Electricity and Magnetism | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS43 | instructors:Kasevich, M. (PI) description:What is electricity? What is magnetism? How are they related? How do these phenomena manifest themselves in the physical world? The theory of electricity and magnetism, as codified by Maxwell's equations, underlies much of the observable universe. Students develop both conceptual and quantitative knowledge of this theory. Topics include: electrostatics; magnetostatics; simple AC and DC circuits involving capacitors, inductors, and resistors; integral form of Maxwell's equations; electromagnetic waves. Principles illustrated in the context of modern technologies. Broader scientific questions addressed include: How do physical theories evolve? What is the interplay between basic physical theories and associated technologies? Discussions based on the language of mathematics, particularly differential and integral calculus, and vectors. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and discussion sections based on interactive group problem solving. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 41 or equivalent. MATH 21 or MATH 42 or MATH 51 or CME 100 or equivalent. Recommended corequisite: MATH 52 or CME 102.
PHYSICS43A | Electricity and Magnetism: Concepts, Calculations and Context | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS43A | instructors:Bulmash, D. (TA); Jewell, M. (TA); Van Houten, K. (TA); Wiser, T. (TA) description:Additional assistance and applications for Physics 43. In-class problems in physics and engineering. Exercises in calculations of electric and magnetic forces and field to reinforce concepts and techniques; Calculations involving inductors, transformers, AC circuits, motors and generators. Highly recommended for students with limited or no high school physics or calculus.  Co-requisite: PHYSICS 43.
PHYSICS44 | Electricity and Magnetism Lab | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS44 | instructors:Kasevich, M. (PI) description:Hands-on exploration of concepts in electricity, magnetism, and circuits. Introduction to multimeters, function generators, oscilloscopes, and graphing techniques.  Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 43.
PHYSICS45 | Light and Heat | http://PHYSICS45.stanford.edu | instructors:Gratta, G. (PI) description:What is temperature? How do the elementary processes of mechanics, which are intrinsically reversible, result in phenomena that are clearly irreversible when applied to a very large number of particles, the ultimate example being life? In thermodynamics, students discover that the approach of classical mechanics is not sufficient to deal with the extremely large number of particles present in a macroscopic amount of gas. The paradigm of thermodynamics leads to a deeper understanding of real-world phenomena such as energy conversion and the performance limits of thermal engines. In optics, students see how a geometrical approach allows the design of optical systems based on reflection and refraction, while the wave nature of light leads to interference phenomena. The two approaches come together in understanding the diffraction limit of microscopes and telescopes. Discussions based on the language of mathematics, particularly calculus. Physical understanding fostered by peer interaction and demonstrations in lecture, and discussion sections based on interactive group problem solving. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 41 or equivalent. MATH 21 or MATH 42 or MATH 51 or CME 100 or equivalent.
PHYSICS450 | Advanced Theoretical Physics I: String Theory with Applications to Cosmology and Black Hole Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS450 | instructors:Silverstein, E. (PI) description:String theory provides a strong candidate for quantum gravity as well as contributing insights into many areas of physics. The class will start by evaluating the need for an extension of general relativity and quantum field theory, and assess the circumstances under which it becomes relevant (or `dangerously irrelevant' in the renormalization group sense). We will develop the basic tools for perturbative calculations and study their implications at short and long distances and in nontrivial spacetime geometries and topologies. The course will survey non-perturbative objects, dualities, compactification, and the structure of cosmological backgrounds of string theory, discussing their implications for early universe models and for the problem of upgrading holographic duality to cosmology.
PHYSICS451 | Advanced Theoretical Physics II: Quantum Information Theory, Complexity, Gravity and Black Holes | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS451 | instructors:Susskind, L. (PI) description:This course will cover the developing intersection between quantum information theory and the quantum theory of gravity. We will focus on the central roles of entanglement and computational complexity in black hole physics. Prerequisites: Basic knowledge of quantum mechanics, quantum field theory, and general relativity.
PHYSICS45N | Topics in Light and Heat | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS45N | instructors:Bucksbaum, P. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. Explores the quantum and classical properties of light from stars, lasers and other sources.  Includes modern applications ranging from gravity wave interferometers to x-ray lasers.
PHYSICS46 | Light and Heat Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS46 | instructors:Gratta, G. (PI) description:Hands-on exploration of concepts in geometrical optics, wave optics and thermodynamics. Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 45.
PHYSICS470 | Topics in Modern Condensed Matter Theory I: Topological States of Matter | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS470 | instructors:Qi, X. (PI) description:A brief introduction to integer quantum Hall effect. Su-Schrieffer-Heeger model  and one-dimensional topological insulators. Topological band theory of time-reversal invariant topological insulators. Various approaches of determining the topological invariant from the bulk and the boundary. An overview of key experiments. Topological superconductivity. Topological response theory. A brief summary of more recent developments on interacting topological insulators/symmetry protected topological states. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 172/APPPHYS 272 or equivalent; knowledge on second quantization; knowledge on path integral.May be repeat for credit
PHYSICS471 | Topics in Modern Condensed Matter Theory II: Physics of the Quantum Hall Regime | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS471 | instructors:Raghu, S. (PI) description:Integer quantum Hall effect, Fractional quantum Hall effect, Laughlin's theory, Hierarchy states, Effective theories, topological order in the fractional quantum Hall effect, physics of the half-filled Landau level, quantum Hall plateau transitions. May be repeat for credit.
PHYSICS490 | Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS490 | instructors:Abel, T. (PI); Akerib, D. (PI); Allen, S. (PI); Altman, R. (PI); Baer, T. (PI); Batzoglou, S. (PI); Beasley, M. (PI); Bejerano, G. (PI); Bhattacharya, J. (PI); Blandford, R. (PI); Block, S. (PI); Bloom, E. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Boxer, S. (PI); Breidenbach, M. (PI); Brodsky, S. (PI); Bucksbaum, P. (PI); Burchat, P. (PI); Burke, D. (PI); Bustamante, C. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cabrera, B. (PI); Chao, A. (PI); Chatterjee, S. (PI); Chichilnisky, E. (PI); Chu, S. (PI); Church, S. (PI); Dai, H. (PI); Das, R. (PI); Devereaux, T. (PI); Dimopoulos, S. (PI); Dixon, L. (PI); Doniach, S. (PI); Drell, P. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Fetter, A. (PI); Fisher, G. (PI); Fisher, I. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Funk, S. (PI); Gaffney, K. (PI); Glenzer, S. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldhaber-Gordon, D. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Graham, P. (PI); Gratta, G. (PI); Graves, E. (PI); Harbury, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hartnoll, S. (PI); Hayden, P. (PI); Hewett, J. (PI); Himel, T. (PI); Hogan, J. (PI); Hollberg, L. (PI); Holmes, S. (PI); Huang, Z. (PI); Huberman, B. (PI); Hwang, H. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Irwin, K. (PI); Jaros, J. (PI); Jones, B. (PI); Kachru, S. (PI); Kahn, S. (PI); Kallosh, R. (PI); Kamae, T. (PI); Kapitulnik, A. (PI); Kasevich, M. (PI); Kivelson, S. (PI); Kosovichev, A. (PI); Kuo, C. (PI); Laughlin, R. (PI); Leith, D. (PI); Lev, B. (PI); Levitt, M. (PI); Linde, A. (PI); Lipa, J. (PI); Luth, V. (PI); Mabuchi, H. (PI); Macintosh, B. (PI); Madejski, G. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); Mao, W. (PI); Markland, T. (PI); Melosh, N. (PI); Michelson, P. (PI); Moerner, W. (PI); Moler, K. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Osheroff, D. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Pande, V. (PI); Papanicolaou, G. (PI); Partridge, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Perl, M. (PI); Peskin, M. (PI); Petrosian, V. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Prinz, F. (PI); Qi, X. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Raghu, S. (PI); Raubenheimer, T. (PI); Romani, R. (PI); Roodman, A. (PI); Rowson, P. (PI); Ruth, R. (PI); Scherrer, P. (PI); Schindler, R. (PI); Schleier-Smith, M. (PI); Schnitzer, M. (PI); Schwartzman, A. (PI); Senatore, L. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenker, S. (PI); Shutt, T. (PI); Silverstein, E. (PI); Smith, T. (PI); Spakowitz, A. (PI); Spudich, J. (PI); Stohr, J. (PI); Su, D. (PI); Susskind, L. (PI); Suzuki, Y. (PI); Thomas, S. (PI); Tompkins, L. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Vuletic, V. (PI); Wacker, J. (PI); Wagoner, R. (PI); Wechsler, R. (PI); Wein, L. (PI); Weis, W. (PI); Wieman, C. (PI); Wojcicki, S. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zhang, S. (PI) description:Open only to Physics graduate students, with consent of instructor. Work is in experimental or theoretical problems in research, as distinguished from independent study of a non-research character in 190 and 293.
PHYSICS491 | Symmetry and Quantum Information | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS491 | instructors: description:This course gives an introduction to quantum information theory through the study of symmetries. We start with Bell's and Tsirelson's inequalities, which bound the strength of classical and quantum correlations, and discuss their relation to algebraic symmetries. Next, we exploit permutation symmetry to quantify the monogamy of entanglement and explain how to securely distribute a secret key. Lastly, we study quantum information in the limit of many copies and discuss a powerful technique for constructing universal quantum protocols, based on the Schur-Weyl duality between the unitary and symmetric groups. Applications include quantum data compression, state estimation, and entanglement distillation. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 230 or equivalent. All required group and representation theory will be introduced. This course runs for the first five weeks of the quarter.
PHYSICS50 | Observational Astronomy Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS50 | instructors:Roodman, A. (PI) description:Introduction to observational astronomy emphasizing the use of optical telescopes. Observations of stars, nebulae, and galaxies in laboratory sessions with telescopes at the Stanford Student Observatory. Meets at the observatory one evening per week from dusk until well after dark, in addition to day-time lectures each week. No previous physics required. Limited enrollment.
PHYSICS59 | Frontiers of Physics Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS59 | instructors:Kallosh, R. (PI); Michelson, P. (PI) description:Recommended for prospective Physics or Engineering Physics majors or anyone with an interest in learning about the big questions and unknowns that physicists tackle in their research at Stanford. Weekly faculty presentations, in some cases followed by tours of experimental laboratories where the research is conducted.
PHYSICS61 | Mechanics and Special Relativity | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS61 | instructors:Burchat, P. (PI) description:(First in a three-part advanced freshman physics series: PHYSICS 61, PHYSICS 63, PHYSICS 65.) This course covers Einstein's special theory of relativity and Newtonian mechanics at a level appropriate for students with a strong high school mathematics and physics background, who are contemplating a major in Physics or Engineering Physics, or are interested in a rigorous treatment of physics. Postulates of special relativity, simultaneity, time dilation, length contraction, the Lorentz transformation, causality, and relativistic mechanics. Central forces, contact forces, linear restoring forces. Momentum transport, work, energy, collisions. Angular momentum, torque, moment of inertia in three dimensions. Damped and forced harmonic oscillators. Uses the language of vectors and multivariable calculus. Recommended prerequisites: Mastery of mechanics at the level of AP Physics C and AP Calculus BC or equivalent. Corequisite: MATH 51.
PHYSICS62 | Mechanics Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS62 | instructors:Pam, R. (SI) description:Introduction to laboratory techniques, experiment design, data collection and analysis simulations, and correlating observations with theory.  Labs emphasize discovery with open-ended questions and hands-on exploration of concepts developed in PHYSICS 61 including Newton's laws, conservation laws, rotational motion.  Pre-or corequisite PHYSICS 61
PHYSICS63 | Electricity, Magnetism, and Waves | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS63 | instructors:Cabrera, B. (PI) description:(Second in a three-part advanced freshman physics series: PHYSICS 61, PHYSICS 63, PHYSICS 65.) This course covers the foundations of electricity and magnetism for students with a strong high school mathematics and physics background, who are contemplating a major in Physics or Engineering Physics, or are interested in a rigorous treatment of physics. Electricity, magnetism, and waves with some description of optics. Electrostatics and Gauss' law. Electric potential, electric field, conductors, image charges. Electric currents, DC circuits. Moving charges, magnetic field, Ampere's law. Solenoids, transformers, induction, AC circuits, resonance. Relativistic point of view for moving charges. Displacement current, Maxwell's equations. Electromagnetic waves, dielectrics. Diffraction, interference, refraction, reflection, polarization. Prerequisite: PHYSICS 61 and MATH 51. Pre- or corequisite: MATH 52.
PHYSICS64 | Electricity, Magnetism and Waves Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS64 | instructors:Cabrera, B. (PI) description:Introduction to multimeters, breadboards, function generators and oscilloscopes. Emphasis on student-developed design of experimental procedure and data analysis for topics covered in PHYSICS 63: electricity, magnetism, circuits, and optics.  Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 63
PHYSICS65 | Quantum and Thermal Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS65 | instructors:Manoharan, H. (PI) description:(Third in a three-part advanced freshman physics series: PHYSICS 61, PHYSICS 63, PHYSICS 65.) This course introduces the foundations of quantum and statistical mechanics for students with a strong high school mathematics and physics background, who are contemplating a major in Physics or Engineering Physics, or are interested in a rigorous treatment of physics.  Quantum mechanics: atoms, electrons, nuclei. Quantization of light, Planck's constant.  Photoelectric effect, Compton and Bragg scattering. Bohr model, atomic spectra. Matter waves, wave packets, interference.  Fourier analysis and transforms, Heisenberg uncertainty relationships. Schrödinger equation, eigenfunctions and eigenvalues.  Particle-in-a-box, simple harmonic oscillator, barrier penetration, tunneling, WKB and approximate solutions. Time-dependent and multi-dimensional solution concepts. Coulomb potential and hydrogen atom structure. Thermodynamics and statistical mechanics: ideal gas, equipartition, heat capacity. Probability, counting states, entropy, equilibrium, chemical potential.  Laws of thermodynamics. Cycles, heat engines, free energy. Partition function, Boltzmann statistics, Maxwell speed distribution, ideal gas in a box, Einstein model.  Quantum statistical mechanics: classical vs. quantum distribution functions, fermions vs. bosons. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 61 & PHYSICS 63. Pre- or corequisite: MATH 53.
PHYSICS67 | Introduction to Laboratory Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS67 | instructors:Pam, R. (PI) description:Methods of experimental design, data collection and analysis, statistics, and curve fitting in a laboratory setting.  Experiments drawn from electronics, optics, heat, and modern physics. Lecture plus laboratory format. Required for PHYSICS 60 series Physics and Engineering Physics majors; recommended, in place of PHYSICS 44, for PHYSICS 40 series students who intend to major in Physics or Engineering Physics.  Pre- or corequisite: PHYSICS 65 or PHYSICS 43.
PHYSICS70 | Foundations of Modern Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS70 | instructors:Wieman, C. (PI) description:Required for Physics or Engineering Physics majors who completed the PHYSICS 40 series. Introduction to special relativity: reference frames, Michelson-Morley experiment. Postulates of relativity, simultaneity, time dilation. Length contraction, the Lorentz transformation, causality. Doppler effect. Relativistic mechanics and mass, energy, momentum relations. Introduction to quantum physics: atoms, electrons, nuclei. Quantization of light, Planck constant.  Photoelectric effect, Compton and Bragg scattering. Bohr model, atomic spectra. Matter waves, wave packets, interference.  Fourier analysis and transforms, Heisenberg uncertainty relationships. Schrödinger equation, eigenfunctions and eigenvalues.  Particle-in-a-box, simple harmonic oscillator, barrier penetration, tunneling, WKB and approximate solutions. Time-dependent and multi-dimensional solution concepts. Coulomb potential and hydrogen atom structure. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 41, PHYSICS 43. Pre or corequisite: PHYSICS 45. Recommended: prior or concurrent registration in MATH 53.
PHYSICS801 | TGR Project | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS801 | instructors: description:
PHYSICS802 | TGR Dissertation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS802 | instructors:Abel, T. (PI); Allen, S. (PI); Baer, T. (PI); Beasley, M. (PI); Bhattacharya, J. (PI); Blandford, R. (PI); Block, S. (PI); Bloom, E. (PI); Breidenbach, M. (PI); Brodsky, S. (PI); Bucksbaum, P. (PI); Burchat, P. (PI); Burke, D. (PI); Cabrera, B. (PI); Chao, A. (PI); Chu, S. (PI); Church, S. (PI); Dai, H. (PI); Devereaux, T. (PI); Dimopoulos, S. (PI); Dixon, L. (PI); Doniach, S. (PI); Drell, P. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fisher, I. (PI); Funk, S. (PI); Gaffney, K. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldhaber-Gordon, D. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Graham, P. (PI); Gratta, G. (PI); Graves, E. (PI); Grill-Spector, K. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hartnoll, S. (PI); Hayden, P. (PI); Hewett, J. (PI); Hogan, J. (PI); Hwang, H. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Irwin, K. (PI); Jaros, J. (PI); Jones, B. (PI); Kachru, S. (PI); Kahn, S. (PI); Kallosh, R. (PI); Kamae, T. (PI); Kapitulnik, A. (PI); Kasevich, M. (PI); Kivelson, S. (PI); Kuo, C. (PI); Laughlin, R. (PI); Leith, D. (PI); Lev, B. (PI); Levitt, M. (PI); Linde, A. (PI); Luth, V. (PI); Mabuchi, H. (PI); Macintosh, B. (PI); Madejski, G. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); Mao, W. (PI); Moerner, W. (PI); Moler, K. (PI); Osheroff, D. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Peskin, M. (PI); Petrosian, V. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Prinz, F. (PI); Qi, X. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Raghu, S. (PI); Raubenheimer, T. (PI); Reed, E. (PI); Romani, R. (PI); Roodman, A. (PI); Ruth, R. (PI); Scherrer, P. (PI); Schindler, R. (PI); Schleier-Smith, M. (PI); Schnitzer, M. (PI); Schwartzman, A. (PI); Senatore, L. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenker, S. (PI); Silverstein, E. (PI); Smith, T. (PI); Spudich, J. (PI); Su, D. (PI); Susskind, L. (PI); Tompkins, L. (PI); Vuletic, V. (PI); Wacker, J. (PI); Wechsler, R. (PI); Wieman, C. (PI); Wojcicki, S. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zhang, S. (PI) description:
PHYSICS81N | Science on the Back of the Envelope | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS81N | instructors:Zhang, S. (PI) description:Understanding the complex world around us quantitatively, using order of magnitude estimates and dimensional analysis. Starting from a handful of fundamental constants of Nature, one can estimate complex quantities such as cosmological length and time scales, size of the atom, height of Mount Everest, speed of tsunami, energy density of fuels and climate effects. Through these examples students learn the art of deductive thinking, fundamental principles of science and the beautiful unity of nature.
PHYSICS83N | Physics in the 21st Century | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS83N | instructors:Tompkins, L. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. Current topics at the frontier of modern physics. This course provides an in-depth examination of two of the biggest physics discoveries of the 21st century: that of the Higgs boson and Dark Energy.  Through studying these discoveries we will explore the big questions driving modern particle physics, the study of nature's most fundamental pieces, and cosmology, the study of the evolution and nature of the universe.  Questions such as: What is the universe made of? What are the most fundamental particles and how do they interact with each other?  What can we learn about the history of the universe and what does it tell us about it's future?  We will learn about the tools scientists use to study these questions such as the Large Hadron Collider and the Hubble Space Telescope.  We will also learn to convey these complex topics in engaging and diverse terms to the general public through writing and reading assignments, oral presentations, and multimedia projects.  The syllabus includes a tour of SLAC, the site of many major 20th century particle discoveries, and a virtual visit of the control room of the ATLAS experiment at CERN amongst other activities. No prior knowledge of physics is necessary; all voices are welcome to contribute to the discussion about these big ideas. Learning Goals: By the end of the quarter you will be able to explain the major questions that drive particle physics and cosmology to your friends and peers.  You will understand how scientists study the impossibly small and impossibly large and be able to convey this knowledge in clear and concise terms.
PHYSICS91SI | Practical Computing for Scientists | http://PHYSICS91SI.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Essential computing skills for researchers in the natural sciences. Helping students transition their computing skills from a classroom to a research environment. Topics include the Unix operating system, the Python programming language, and essential tools for data analysis, simulation, and optimization. More advanced topics as time allows. Prerequisite: CS106A or equivalent.
PHYSICS95Q | The Philosophies of Three Great  Physicists | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=PHYSICS95Q | instructors:Betre, K. (PI) description:Richard Feynman has famously said, Philosophy of science is about as useful to scientists as ornithology is to birds. A closer look at key moments in the history of physics, however, reveals a different picture. Contrary to the misconception that philosophy has nothing to offer to science in general, and physics in particular, watershed moments in the development of physics were inspired and motivated by deeply held philosophical principles. Similarly, important developments in physics have generated important and difficult philosophical questions. In this sophomore seminar we will explore three significant moments in the development of physics surrounding the works of Newton, Einstein, and Bohr. We will analyze the relationship between the prevailing philosophical views they espoused and the physics they produced. How did Newton come to the view of absolute and fixed space and time? What led Einstein to reject the notion of a fixed space and time and propose a relativistic, and even dynamic space-time? What is Bohr's influential doctrine of complementary, and why did several generations of physicists believe it to be an adequate philosophical response to quantum mechanics? We will see that the relationship between philosophy and physics is more similar to the relationship between mathematics and physics where progress in one area is often preceded and followed by progress in the second.
