ANTHRO1 | Introduction to Cultural and Social Anthropology (ANTHRO 201) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO1 | instructors:Ferguson, J. (PI); Greenleaf, M. (GP) description:Crosscultural anthropological perspectives on human behavior, including cultural transmission, social organization, sex and gender, culture change, technology, war, ritual, and related topics. Case studies illustrating the principles of the cultural process. Films.
ANTHRO100D | Chavin de Huantar Research Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO100D | instructors:Rick, J. (PI) description:Archaeological analytical techniques appropriate for data recovered during archaeological fieldwork in Chavin de Huantar, Peru. Open to all interested students; fieldwork participants are expected to take the course. Students work on data from the previous field season to produce synthetic written reports, focusing on specific methodological issues.
ANTHRO101A | Archaeology as a Profession (ARCHLGY 107A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO101A | instructors:Wilcox, M. (PI) description:Academic, contract, government, field, laboratory, museum, and heritage aspects of the profession.
ANTHRO101B | ARCHAEOLOGY OF TECHNOLOGY (ANTHRO 201B, ARCHLGY 100, ARCHLGY 200) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO101B | instructors:Greene, A. (PI) description:The course is an introduction to the social organization of material production and to the theoretical, ethnographic, and historical frameworks used by archaeologists to link the technologies of the past to salient sociocultural information about the people who employed them. Comparison of metallurgical, ceramic, lithic, and textile industries in different cultural and historical settings will inform critical discussions of how and to what extent analyses of artifacts, workshops, and industrial installations can provide insight into past societies.
ANTHRO101S | Introduction to Cultural and Social Anthropology (ANTHRO 1S) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO101S | instructors:Auerbach, J. (PI); Greenleaf, M. (PI) description:Crosscultural anthropological perspectives on human behavior, including cultural transmission, social organization, sex and gender, culture change, technology, war, ritual, and related topics. Case studies illustrating the principles of the cultural process. Films.
ANTHRO102C | Indigenous Cultural Heritage: Protection, Practice, Repatriation (ARCHLGY 101, ARCHLGY 202, CSRE 102, NATIVEAM 102) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO102C | instructors:Jessiman, S. (PI) description:This interdisciplinary seminar explores challenges and avenues for furthering protection of the cultural heritage rights enshrined in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Using an innovative combination of online lectures by Stanford faculty and students, and recorded interviews with Indigenous leaders, artists, performers, scholars and museum professionals, the seminar will explore and problematize: historic and contemporary understandings of "Indigenous cultural heritage" and the impact of colonialism, urbanization and other forces on Indigenous identity and cultural heritage; current and potential domestic and international legal and non-legal frameworks for Indigenous cultural heritage protection and repatriation; past and present museum approaches to Indigenous peoples and their cultural material; and optimal methods of resolving repatriation disputes. While the seminar will cover primarily the situation of Indigenous peoples in North America, comparisons will be drawn with other regions of the globe. The on-campus component of the seminar will involve directed discussions of the online content, the online forum, assigned readings and short writing assignments. Students can choose between a final exam, paper or video project. Lunch is provided.
ANTHRO106 | Incas and their Ancestors: Peruvian Archaeology (ANTHRO 206A, ARCHLGY 102B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO106 | instructors:Rick, J. (PI) description:The development of high civilizations in Andean S. America from hunter-gatherer origins to the powerful, expansive Inca empire. The contrasting ecologies of coast, sierra, and jungle areas of early Peruvian societies from 12,000 to 2,000 B.C.E. The domestication of indigenous plants which provided the economic foundation for monumental cities, ceramics, and textiles. Cultural evolution, and why and how major transformations occurred.
ANTHRO108E | Catalhoyuk and Neolithic Archaeology (ARCHLGY 108E) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO108E | instructors:Hodder, I. (PI) description:Catalhoyuk as a case study to understand prehistoric social life during the Neolithic in Anatolia and the Near East. Developments in agriculture, animal domestication, material technology, trade, art, religion, skull cults, architecture, and burial practices. Literature specific to Catalhoyuk and other excavations throughout the Anatolian and Levantine regions to gain a perspective on diversity and variability throughout the Neolithic. The reflexive methodology used to excavate Catalhoyuk, and responsibilities of excavators to engage with larger global audiences of interested persons and stakeholders.
ANTHRO10A | The Archaeology of Home (ARCHLGY 10) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO10A | instructors:Bautista San Miguel, S. (PI) description:Homes evoke powerful emotions about place and also highlight the dynamic and complex nature of people, their relationships, and the broader society they live in. Focus on the ways that material traces from the past shed light on the diversity of domestic life, which includes household organization, economic strategies, diet and status, rituals, and identity. Archaeological case studies to see how archaeologists identify reoccurring patterns in material culture found in homes or domestic dwellings to reconstruct household patterns and social relations.
ANTHRO111B | Muwekma: Landscape Archaeology and the Narratives of California Natives (ARCHLGY 111B, NATIVEAM 111B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO111B | instructors:Wilcox, M. (PI) description:This course explores the unique history of San Francisco Bay Area tribes with particular attention to Muwekma Ohlone- the descendent community associated with the landscape surrounding and including Stanford University. The story of Muwekma provides a window into the history of California Indians from prehistory to Spanish exploration and colonization, the role of Missionaries and the controversial legacy of Junipero Serra, Indigenous rebellions throughout California, citizenship and land title during the 19th century, the historical role of anthropology and archaeology in shaping policy and recognition of Muwekma, and the fight for acknowledgement of Muwekma as a federally recognized tribe. We will visit local sites associated with this history and participate in field surveys of the landscape of Muwekma.
ANTHRO113B | Religious Practices in Archaeological Cultures (ANTHRO 213B, ARCHLGY 113B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO113B | instructors:Caval, S. (PI) description:According to Hawkes (1954), religion or ideology is the most difficult part of social life to access archaeologically. Luckily, not all scholars agree; according to Fogelin (2008) 'religion is not something people think about, but something people do¿. Thus, archaeology, an inherently multidisciplinary subject that studies material culture, is well suited to delve into religion and its underpinnings.nThis course will explore religious practices, as they can be defined and interpreted from archaeological contexts spanning the Paleolithic to historic periods. Definitions of religion differ from author to author but they mostly agree that religion is a fully integrated and thus integral part of human social life. Politics, economics, identity and social class influence religion, and religion influences how these forces play out in society. Thus, the course will also examine the significance of ritual and religion in a variety of social contexts.
ANTHRO115 | The Social life of Human Bones (ANTHRO 215, ARCHLGY 115) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO115 | instructors:Seetah, K. (PI) description:Skeletal remains serve a primary function of support and protection for the human body. However, beyond this, they have played a range of social roles once an individual is deceased. The processes associated with excarnation, interment, exhumation and reburial all speak to the place that the body, and its parts, play in our cultural as well as physical landscape.n	This course builds on introductory courses in human skeletal anatomy by adding the social dynamics that govern the way humans treat other humans once they have died. It draws on anthropological, biological and archaeological research, with case studies spanning a broad chronological and spatial framework to provide students with an overview of social practice as it relates to the human body.
ANTHRO118 | Heritage, Environment, and Sovereignty in Hawaii (EARTHSYS 118) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO118 | instructors:Wilcox, M. (PI) description:This course explores the cultural, political economic, and environmental status of contemporary Hawaiians. What sorts of sustainable economic and environmental systems did Hawaiians use in prehistory? How was colonization of the Hawaiian Islands informed and shaped by American economic interests and the nascent imperialsm of the early 20th centrury? How was sovereignty and Native Hawaiian identity been shaped by these forces? How has tourism and the leisure industry affected the natural environment? This course uses archaeological methods, ethnohistorical sources, and historical analysis in an exploration of contemporary Hawaiian social economic and political life.
ANTHRO119 | Zooarchaeology: An Introduction to Faunal Remains (ANTHRO 219, ARCHLGY 119) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO119 | instructors:Seetah, K. (PI) description:As regularly noted, whether historic or pre-historic, animal bones are often the most commonly occurring artefacts on archaeological sites. As bioarchaeological samples, they offer the archaeologist an insight into food culture, provisioning, trade and the social aspects of human-animal interactions. The course will be taught through both practical and lecture sessions: the `hands-on¿ component is an essential complement to the lectures. The lectures will offer grounding in the main methodological approaches developed, as well as provide case-studies to illustrate where and how the methods have been applied. The practical session will walk students through the skeletal anatomy of a range of species. It will guide students on the identification of different parts of the animal, how to age / sex individuals, as well as recognize taphonomic indicators and what these mean to reconstructing post-depositional modifications.
ANTHRO120B | Indian Popular Culture | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO120B | instructors: description:This course will explore key topics in contemporary India through an analysis of its popular culture. Bollywood and Kollywood films, Hindi soap operas and reality shows, vernacular music in Bihar, Tamil pulp fiction, matchboxes from Bangalore, clothing styles of Kerala college students, advertising in Mumbai, and cell phones used in Varanasi will all be brought together to help us shape an image of India as complex, contested, and changing. As an anthropology course, we will focus on the consumption of these media and discuss what they do in the world. Looking at both the source material itself and the way in which it is used, we will explore topics such as: nationalism, gender and sexuality, middle class aspiration, globalization, neoliberal consumerism, and the postcolonial condition.
ANTHRO122A | Race and Culture in Mexico and Central America (ANTHRO 222A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO122A | instructors:Gonzalez, J. (PI) description:This course addresses the role of racial ideologies in the historical configuration of multiple hierarchies of inequality that determine the place of everyone in society in Mexico and Central America. Based on readings from the humanities and social sciences, we will discuss the cultural and racial politics of authoritarianism and indigenous insurgency, emphasizing narratives of laziness and vagrancy that have been central to the discipline of labor that shapes local processes of regressive modernization and nation building.  We will analyze the hegemony of dictatorship as political necessity, the relationship between local racisms and global Whiteness, and the emergence of new local and transnational contestations to the multiple hierarchies that determine the place of everyone in society.
ANTHRO122C | Research in Maya Hieroglyphic Writing (ANTHRO 222C) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO122C | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Workshop. Current issues in the decipherment and analysis of Maya hieroglyphic writing and literacy.
ANTHRO124N | Maya Mythology and the Popol Vuh | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO124N | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Shortly after the Spanish conquest of Highland Guatemala, an anonymous Quiché Mayan noble translated a sacred text of his people, Popol Vuh (¿Council Book¿), and committed the Mayan to Spanish letters.  His book, with its account of creations and destructions of the world by the gods, the descent of the Hero Twins into the Underworld and their ball games with its lords, and a history of the ruling clan of the Quiché state, is a grand apology for the values and world of the Quiché Maya, but it is no drab political treatise.  It relates the daily life of the Quiché to their natural world (including the skies) and to the underworld journey that they expected in death, and is a compilation crafted to instruct and entertain at several levels of interpretation, from those of sophisticated scholars to children.n	In the 1970¿s, we began to realize that many of the ceramic vessels unearthed from the tombs of the Classic Lowland Maya, originally intended to accompany their owners on their perilous journey through the underworld, actually illustrate scenes described in Popol Vuh.  More recently, it has been possible to relate the mythology to texts newly deciphered from Mayan inscriptions as well as vases.  The Popol Vuh has thus been shown to be a survival of a much older and more widespread culture.  Like most survivals, though, it had been re-crafted in the image of the contemporary Quiché culture.  When are mythological similarities sufficient to imply relatedness of the stories through common descent?  How can mythical similarities imply universals of mind and culture?  How have myths been used as state political instruments?n	This is an exciting combination of archaeology, linguistics, cultural anthropology, art, and literature.  Students will analyze the text critically, examine Mayan art, and help develop a web site.  No prerequisites.
ANTHRO126 | Urban Culture in Global Perspective (URBANST 114) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO126 | instructors:Hansen, T. (PI) description:Core course for Urban Studies majors. We will study urban space both historically and cross-culturally. Urban Studies, by definition, is an interdisciplinary field, where the methodological approaches draw upon a diverse set of analytic tools. Disciplines that occupy a prominent place in this class are geography, cultural anthropology, sociology, history, media studies, and literature. In this context, we will discuss the importance of cities around the world to the economic, cultural, and political well-being of modern societies and examine how forces such as industrialization, decentralization, and globalization affect the structure and function of cities.
ANTHRO132B | Islam Law in Muslim and Non-Muslim Societies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO132B | instructors:Ghani, A. (PI) description:In this course, students will engage with scholarly material that demonstrates the multiple and varying ways in which Islam is invoked as a legal discourse in Muslim  and Non- Muslim societies. In this course, we look at Islam not merely as being in the domain of legislation and adjudication, but as a cultural object; an important signifier in politics,  for the state to enforce itself, as well as a technology for people¿s strategic use. The point of this course is therefore to consider how Islam operates in legal contexts as a 1) discourse of power and of strategy (at personal and political levels) and 2) as a discourse of identity that concerns issues of ethics, rights, gender, kinship, class and nation.
ANTHRO133B | Covering Islam: On What We Learn to See, Think and Hear about Islam & Muslims (AFRICAST 133B, CSRE 133B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO133B | instructors:Ghani, A. (PI) description:In this course, students will think critically about how knowledge about Islam,  Muslims, and Muslim Societies is produced and circulated. As a class, we will consider why and how certain kinds of ideas about Islam and Muslims become representative (i.e., authoritative discourse) while others ideas do not. This is an interdisciplinary class; course material will draw on readings from anthropology, literary criticism, history, sociology and media and cultural studies. We will also be engaging with other kinds of material, including news articles, editorials, documentaries, and films.
ANTHRO136 | The Anthropology of Global Supply Chains (ANTHRO 236) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO136 | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:This upper-division undergraduate seminar focuses on recent studies by anthropologists and scholars in related disciplines on global supply chains and consumption practices.The goal of the course is to assess concepts and methods for integrating a cultural analysis of transnational production with a cultural analysis of transnational consumption.  We will review ethnographic studies of the production and consumption of commodities linked by transnational and global networks. The class will thennpursue collaborative research on the global production, distribution, and consumption of a selected commodity.  Prerequisite: junior or senior standing and previous coursework in cultural anthropology or permission of instructor.
ANTHRO138B | Urban Africa (AFRICAST 138B, URBANST 139) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO138B | instructors:West, A. (PI) description:This course explores the production of urban space and the social, cultural, and political significance of cities in sub-Saharan Africa. Topics include: architecture and the built environment; urban planning and colonial public health; migration and rural-urban dynamics; youth, politics, and popular culture; violence, policing, and the privatization of public space; (in)formality in housing, transportation, and employment; class, gender, and mobility in the public sphere; urban citizenship and `right to the city¿ movements; gentrification, tourism, and the commodification of poverty; and efforts to (re)theorize postcolonial African cities. Readings are drawn from anthropology, history, urban studies, and geography. Discussion will situate struggles over urban forms and the contours of everyday life within broader trends in the political economy of the region from the late colonial period to the present.
ANTHRO13A | Islamic Routes: Archaeology and Heritage of Muslim Societies (ARCHLGY 13, HISTORY 7E, HISTORY 107E) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO13A | instructors:Simpson, I. (PI) description:How has archaeology changed our knowledge of the spread of Islam and past Muslim societies? How does archaeology shape heritage debates, conflicts and ideas about Islam today? Topics include the city and urban change, secular and religious life, gender, economy, and globalization. These topics are explored using archaeological and critical heritage approaches. Focus is on examples drawn from Syria-Palestine, Egypt, Iraq, Arabian Peninsula, India, and Africa. Sources include archaeological data and material culture, historical texts in translation, and photography.
ANTHRO140 | Ethnography of Africa | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO140 | instructors:Malkki, L. (PI) description:This course is an exploration of some central themes and issues in contemporary African society through close readings of a selection of recent ethnographies.  It aims to understand Africa as a place where many of the most challenging issues of a modern, globalized world are being thought about in exciting and creative ways, both by ethnographers and by the people about whom they write.  Among the key issues that the course seeks to address are: the history and politics of colonial domination; the ways that medicine and government intersect; the increasing use of humanitarian frames of reference in understanding African realities; the changing meanings of HIV/AIDS, sex, and love; and the role of mass media in enabling cultural and imaginative production to take form.
ANTHRO141B | The Anthropology of Bits and Bytes: Digital Media in the Developing World | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO141B | instructors:Poggiali, L. (PI) description:Recent historical developments, including the widespread adoption of the mobile phone across Africa and Southeast Asia, the ¿Arab Spring,¿ and the rise of technology sectors in cities such as Nairobi, Bangalore, and Accra, have turned digital technology in the ¿global South¿ into a topic of growing popular interest and increasing scholarly concern.  This course attempts to make sense of these developments by interrogating diverse theoretical approaches to digital technology and assessing what these approaches reveal and obscure in specific cases of technology adoption in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.  Students will be introduced to an overview of scholarly approaches to digital technology from anthropology, science and technology studies (STS), critical theory, geography, and communications studies.  We will analyze the relative utility of these explanations through case studies of specific instances of technological production and/or use.  These case studies will be drawn from both secondary texts and primary materials such as social media, digital maps, videos, blogs, and news reports.  At the same time, we will examine how digital discourses and practices both draw upon and inform broader issues of context-specific political and cultural importance.  Major topics to be discussed include ¿development¿ and the State, civil society and the ¿public sphere,¿ youth culture, gender politics, mobility, and globalization.  Students will come away from the course with a strong understanding of the major issues at stake in the increasing digitalization of the ¿global South,¿ and the socio-cultural, political, and technical debates that frame them
ANTHRO146G | Paperwork (STS 200G) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO146G | instructors:Inoue, M. (PI) description:"Paperwork" is an intensive reading course in a seminar format, concerning the production, circulation and mediation of "paperwork" both as a material and symbolic infrastructure for the operation of modern institutions and governance. We will explore diverse techniques and technologies of paperwork, including note-taking, memos, lists, files, and documents, and forms of paperwork such as medical record, petition, passport, ID card, immigration paper, as well as archives and other mnemonic technologies both as cultural practices and reflexive objects. The goal of the course is to understand "bureaucracy" in the fields of law, business, and public administration, as well as in civil society generally, from the vantage point of concrete inscription, circulation, and storage of papers and documents.  Readings will include works by Bruno Latour, Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault, Cornelia Vismann, Friedrich Kittler, and others.
ANTHRO150A | Minaret and Mahallah: Women and Islam in Central Asia (FEMGEN 150A, REES 250A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO150A | instructors:Kunanbaeva, A. (PI) description:Introduction to women's culture and art in Muslim countries of Central Asia.  Women, bearers of family rites and folklore, are the key figures in transmission of traditional culture and guardians of folk Islam.  Women helped to keep the continuity of Islamic education in Central Asia during the harsh times of Communist dominance.  The whole wealth of women's oral tradition will be demonstrated and examined to the extent possible.  The course will make broad use of audio-visual materials.
ANTHRO152 | Ritual, Politics, Power (SOC 156) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO152 | instructors:Thiranagama, S. (PI) description:Our everyday lives are made up of multiple routines, some consciously staged and imagined and others unconscious and insidious. Anthropologists call these rituals. Rituals shape every aspect of our lives, creating our symbolic universes and governing the most minute of our practices. nnFor early anthropologists and for those interested in religious and symbolic life, rituals and rites were seen as both one of the most universal features of human existence, and, as that which enables us to reflect upon our human existence. A prominent example are that of the ¿rites de passage¿ found in every culture, from puberty initiation rites, weddings or funerals, which socially signal the change from one status to another. While initially for anthropologists, rituals marked the difference between the sacred and the profane, soon scholars began to see the ubiquity of ritual and the symbolic in shaping even the most mundane activity such as the structure of a meal and why one is not meant to eat dessert before the main course. The first half of the class examines these different debates surrounding the meaning and effects of rituals and rites. The second half of the class takes these debates to think about the question of power and politics. We return to the question of how our symbolic universes are staged and imagined by us through ritual forms such as the annual Presidential ¿pardoning the turkey¿ at Thanksgiving. The question of power however pushes us even further to ask why it is that we obey particular kinds of authority, consent to particular actions, and find ourselves doing things we haven¿t consciously decided to do. Many have argued that these kinds of political questions about how we respond and are shaped by power have something to do with our symbolic worlds and ritual, from the most obvious (the monarchy) to the most subtle (listening in a classroom). Throughout the course, these abstract questions will be grounded in cross-cultural examples and analysis.
ANTHRO154 | Anthropology of Drugs: Experience, Capitalism, Modernity (ANTHRO 254B, CSRE 154) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO154 | instructors:Garcia, A. (PI) description:This course examines the significant role ¿drugs¿ play in shaping expressions of the self and social life; in the management populations, and in the production of markets and inequality. It engages these themes through cultural representations of drugs and drug use, analyses of scientific discourse, and social theory. Topics include: the social construction of the licit and illicit; the shifting boundaries of deviance, disease and pleasure; and the relationship between local markets and global wars.
ANTHRO155 | Research Methods in Ecological Anthropology (ANTHRO 255) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO155 | instructors:Curran, L. (PI) description:The course prepare students for the methodological and practical aspects of doing ecologically oriented, quantitative anthropological field research. The primary goal is to explore what it means to ask anthropological questions in a systematic way. We will focus on understanding what can constitute an interesting question, how to frame a question in way that facilitates investigation, and how to design methods to begin investigating a question. In turn, the course will provide a format to refine research projects in preparation for doing more extensive fieldwork.
ANTHRO156B | Environment, Nature and Race (CSRE 156J) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO156B | instructors:Gardiner, M. (PI) description:Environment, nature and race: Politics of belonging, exclusion, and embodiment. Scientific and popular understandings of race and ethnicity remain deeply entangled with ideas about "nature" and the "environment". This course will introduce students to some of the many ways that nature, environment, and race have been and remain intertwined, for better or for worse. What does it mean to claim race is "natural"? To what extent is race shaped by environment and vice versa? How are the politics of race linked to the politics of environmentalism? The class will begin with a brief treatment of current critical consensus on the biology of race and the cultural politics of race and nature, and move on to a theoretical discussion of how humans and "nature" interact. From there, the course moves into historical and ethnographic examples of the politics of race and the environment: the racialized and racializing character of particular environments; the ways that racial politics shape natural environments; and the politics of exclusion and belonging in environmental movements. Case studies will be both rural and urban and draw from anthropology, geography, history, and biology. The course will end by considering the recent resurgence of the race concept in biology.
ANTHRO160 | Social and Environmental Sustainability: The Costa Rican Case (ANTHRO 260) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO160 | instructors:Durham, W. (PI) description:Seminar focused on issues of tropical sustainability with a particular emphasis on the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica.  Offered in conjunction with the Osa Initiative in the Wood¿s Institute for the Environment, the course highlights issues of human development in the tropics, through such means as agricultural development, ecotourism, conservation efforts, private and indigenous reserves, and mining.  The course will draw from diverse disciplines including anthropology, rural sociology, conservation biology, geosciences, history, political science, and journalism.  In addition to weekly discussions, students will development a research paper throughout the term which will be presented to a panel of selected Wood¿s Faculty during the final week of the term.
ANTHRO162 | Indigenous Peoples and Environmental Problems (ANTHRO 262) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO162 | instructors:Durham, W. (PI) description:The social and cultural consequences of contemporary environmental problems. The impact of market economies, development efforts, and conservation projects on indigenous peoples, emphasizing Latin America. The role of indigenous grass roots organizations in combating environmental destruction and degradation of homeland areas.
ANTHRO163A | Endangered Languages and Language Revitalization (ANTHRO 263A, LINGUIST 163A, LINGUIST 263, NATIVEAM 163) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO163A | instructors:Ogilvie, S. (PI) description:Languages around the world are dying at such a rapid rate that the next century could see half of the world's 6800 languages and cultures become extinct unless action is taken now. This course looks at how and why languages die, and what is lost from a culture when that occurs. We will investigate how this trend can be reversed by methods of language documentation and description, the use of innovative technologies, multimodal fieldwork, writing dictionaries and grammars for different audiences, language planning, and data creation, annotation, preservation, and dissemination. We will focus on a number of current programs around the world to revitalize languages. Finally, the course will examine ethical modes of fieldwork within endangered language communities, and the possibilities of successful collaborations and capacity building, focusing especially on Northern California Indian peoples and their languages.
ANTHRO166 | Political Ecology of Tropical Land Use: Conservation, Natural Resource Extraction, and Agribusiness (ANTHRO 266) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO166 | instructors:Curran, L. (PI) description:Seminar. The state, private sector, development agencies, and NGOs in development and conservation of tropical land use. Focus is on the socioeconomic and political drivers of resource extraction and agricultural production. Case studies used to examine the local-to-global context from many disciplines. Are maps and analyses used for gain, visibility, accountability, or contested terrain? How are power dynamics, land use history, state-private sector collusion, and neoliberal policies valued? What are the local and extra-local responses?
ANTHRO169 | The Ecology of Cuisine: Food, Nutrition, and the Evolution of the Human Diet (ANTHRO 269) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO169 | instructors:Bird, R. (PI) description:This course is an interdisciplinary approach to understanding human food consumption and nutrition, incorporating biological, evolutionary, ecological and social perspectives. Topics include a broad survey of primate diets and their physiological and behavioral correlates; fossil and archaeological evidence for early human diets; adaptations to dietary shifts since the Neolithic; infant and early child feeding practices and their role in shaping human social arrangements, metabolic syndrome, food security, food taboos; the origins of spices; cultural diversity in the social uses and meanings of food and the sharing of food; gathering, hunting and locavorism as high hipster cuisine. Emphasis is on understanding the diversity of human foodways through time and space: how biology, culture, and ecology interact to shape the food we eat, and how the food we eat shapes us.
ANTHRO170 | Australian Ecosystems: Human Dimensions and Environmental Dynamics (ANTHRO 270, EARTHSYS 172) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO170 | instructors:Bird, R. (PI); Bird, D. (GP) description:This cross-disciplinary course surveys the history and prehistory of human ecological dynamics in Australia, drawing on geology, climatology, archaeology, geography, ecology and anthropology to understand the mutual dynamic relationships between the continent and its inhabitants. Topics include anthropogenic fire and fire ecology, animal extinctions, aridity and climate variability, colonization and spread of Homo sapiens, invasive species interactions, changes in human subsistence and mobility throughout the Pleistocene and Holocene as read through the archaeological record, the totemic geography and social organization of Aboriginal people at the time of European contact, the ecological and geographical aspects of the "Dreamtime", and contemporary issues of policy relative to Aboriginal land tenure and management.
ANTHRO171A | Linguistic Field Methods | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO171A | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Workshop applying methods for gathering and analyzing linguistic data in the field, i.e., from consultants who are native speakers of a language essentially unknown to the investigator.  Principles of language documentation.  Students will do local field projects and work on these both in and out of class.  Format involves lectures, discussion, working with native speakers, and student presentations.  Topics include:  choosing a language; planning the project; computerized collection, storage, and analysis of linguistic data; field recording equipment; interviews and elicitation; diagnostic vocabulary lists and grammatical schedules; field study of everyday communication and discourse; area surveys and the ethnography of communication; ethics, reflexivity, and bias; working with human subjects and governments.  Prerequisite:  a course in linguistics or in anthropological field methods.
ANTHRO175 | Human Skeletal Anatomy (ANTHRO 275, BIO 174, BIO 274, HUMBIO 180) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO175 | instructors:Klein, R. (PI) description:Study of the human skeleton (a. k. a. human osteology), as it bears on other disciplines, including medicine, forensics, archaeology, and paleoanthropology (human evolution).  Basic bone biology, anatomy, and development, emphasizing hands-on examination and identification of human skeletal parts, their implications for determining an individual¿s age, sex, geographic origin, and health status, and for the evolutionary history of our species.  Three hours of lecture and at least three hours of supervised and independent study in the lab each week.
ANTHRO176 | Cultures, Minds, and Medicine (ANTHRO 276) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO176 | instructors:Luhrmann, T. (PI) description:This workshop aims to bring together scholars from the social sciences, humanities, medicine and bio-science and technology to explore the ways that health and illness are made through complex social forces. We aim for informal, interactive sessions, full of debate and good will. Dates of meetings will be listed in the notes section in the time schedule.
ANTHRO178 | Evolution and Conservation in Galapagos (ANTHRO 278) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO178 | instructors:Durham, W. (PI) description:The contribution of research in the Galapagos Islands to our current understanding of evolution and conservation.  Writings from Darwin to Dawkins, as they reveal patterns and processes of evolution including selection, adaptation, speciation, and coevolution.  Current conservation strategies in the archipelago, and urgent measures needed today before unique species and adaptations are lost.
ANTHRO181A | Gender in the Middle East: Iran, Turkey, and Egypt (FEMGEN 181A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO181A | instructors:Alemdaroglu, A. (PI) description:This course explores the construction of gender in the Middle East. Drawing on the historical, sociological and anthropological research in the region, the course aims to question the stereotypes about the subordination of Muslim women and to offer students a systematic reading and analytical discussion of the political, economic and cultural structures that inform gender relations and practices in the region. The course starts with an examination of early Islam and religious sources with regard to women¿s status, then moves on to nationalist and modernization movements in the 19th and  20th centuries, and finally explores women¿s and men¿s lives in contemporary Egypt, Turkey and Iran. In this framework, we will pay special attention to Islamist mobilizations, family and sexual relations, as well as women's changing livelihoods and labor.
ANTHRO182N | Smoke and Mirrors in Global Health | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO182N | instructors:Engel, C. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI) description:A few years ago, health experts began calling out tobacco as engendering a global health crisis, categorizing the cigarette as the world's greatest weapon of mass destruction. A "global health crisis"? What merits that title if not tobacco use? A hundred million people were killed by tobacco in the 20th century, and ten times that number ¿ a billion people ¿ are predicted to die prematurely from exposure to cigarette smoke over the next hundred years. How has tobacconcome to be labeled a global health crisis over the last decade and what has been the political response? From whence does activism and ongoing complacency regarding tobacco arise? How are they created in different cultural contexts?nnThis course aims to provide students conceptual tools to tackle two specific thought projects: (1) to understand how institutional actors compete to define a situation in the world today as a problem of global health, and (2) to understand the sociocultural means by which something highly dangerous to health such as the cigarette is made both politically contentious and inert. On both fronts, special attention will be given to the ways global health activism and complacency unfold in the U.S. and China.
ANTHRO186 | Culture and Madness (ANTHRO 286) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO186 | instructors:Garcia, A. (PI) description:'Madness' lends insight into the construction of the normal and abnormal; the boundaries of reason and unreason; the epistemological relation of mind and body, and the management of difference and disease. Taking an interdisciplinary perspective, this course explores the fundamental questions madness poses to subjectivity, culture and modernity.
ANTHRO186N | The Most Rational People in the World | http://ANTHRO186N.stanford.edu | instructors:Jones, J. (PI) description:Humans, broadly construed, emerged as bipedal apes in the African mixed savanna-woodlands approximately two million years ago. From humble beginnings, humans have gone on to be become the ecologically dominant species in most biomes and grown to a global population in excess of seven billion. This dominance arises from a combination of features of the human organism including its extreme degree of behavioral flexibility and flexible social organization. The prima facie evidence of human evolutionary and ecological success raises a paradox with respect to recent work in economics and psychology which increasingly argues for pervasive irrationality in human decision-making in a wide array of behavioral contexts. How is it possible for an organism with such seemingly flawed software supporting decision-making to become the globally dominant species? We will use this contradiction as the launching point for understanding what rationality means in a broad ecological and cross-cultural context. What do we mean by `rationality¿? How do different disciplines conceive of rationality in different ways? Is there such a thing as a rationality that transcends cultural differences or is the very idea of rationality a cultural construction that is used to justify imperialism and other modes of paternalism? Are there systematic factors that promote or impede rational decision-making? The seminar will provide a gentle introduction to the formal approaches of decision theory which we will apply to an unusual array of topics centered on the subsistence and reproductive decisions of hunter-gatherers, horticulturalists, pastoralists, and agrarian peasants, in short, people living in face-to-face, subsistence societies. In addition to doing reading from a broad array of social and natural science disciplines around the topic of rationality, students will regularly engage in exercises to assess their own approaches to decision-making.
ANTHRO187 | Nuclear Cultures | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO187 | instructors:Jain, S. (PI) description:This course examines the new cultural forms that arose out of the use of nuclear technology. Subjects covered will include: The Manhattan Project, nuclear activism, nuclear experimentation in  medicine, pre-nuclear history, nuclear energy, and nuclear waste and trade.
ANTHRO193 | Anthropology Capstone: Contemporary Debates in Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO193 | instructors:Thiranagama, S. (PI) description:Do you know what an anthropological perspective is? Can you describe some of the key assumptions and questions within the discipline? nA major in Anthropology is composed of many specialized courses in different tracks, different emphases and seemingly a never-ending multiplication of perspectives and ethnographies. However, Anthropology is also an ongoing intellectual conversation with foundational questions, some of longstanding and some new. These foundational questions have stimulated different responses and answers and thus have also led to constant renewal of the discipline in the midst of profound disagreement. In this Anthropology Capstone course students across tracks and emphases will address some of the critical debates that have been central to the discipline as it has developed. We will feature three debate questions in the class. Preparation for each debate will be through class discussion of critical readings as well as extra-mural reading and preparation with one¿s debating partners.
ANTHRO199 | Senior and Master's Paper Writing Workshop (ANTHRO 299) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO199 | instructors:Poggiali, L. (PI) description:Techniques of interpreting data, organizing bibliographic materials, writing, editing and revising. Preparation of papers for conferences and publications in anthropology. Seniors register for 199; master's students register for 299.
ANTHRO1S | Introduction to Cultural and Social Anthropology (ANTHRO 101S) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO1S | instructors:Auerbach, J. (PI); Greenleaf, M. (PI) description:Crosscultural anthropological perspectives on human behavior, including cultural transmission, social organization, sex and gender, culture change, technology, war, ritual, and related topics. Case studies illustrating the principles of the cultural process. Films.
ANTHRO201 | Introduction to Cultural and Social Anthropology (ANTHRO 1) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO201 | instructors:Ferguson, J. (PI) description:Crosscultural anthropological perspectives on human behavior, including cultural transmission, social organization, sex and gender, culture change, technology, war, ritual, and related topics. Case studies illustrating the principles of the cultural process. Films.
ANTHRO201B | ARCHAEOLOGY OF TECHNOLOGY (ANTHRO 101B, ARCHLGY 100, ARCHLGY 200) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO201B | instructors:Greene, A. (PI) description:The course is an introduction to the social organization of material production and to the theoretical, ethnographic, and historical frameworks used by archaeologists to link the technologies of the past to salient sociocultural information about the people who employed them. Comparison of metallurgical, ceramic, lithic, and textile industries in different cultural and historical settings will inform critical discussions of how and to what extent analyses of artifacts, workshops, and industrial installations can provide insight into past societies.
ANTHRO204 | Language and Culture (ANTHRO 4) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO204 | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Comparative approach, using examples from many languages. Emphasis is on generally non-Western speech communities. Topics include: the structure of language; the theory of signs; vocabulary and culture; grammar, cognition, and culture (linguistic relativism and determinism); encodability of cultural information in language; language adaptiveness to social function; the ethnography of speaking; registers; discourse (conversation, narrative, verbal art); language and power; language survival and extinction; and linguistic ideology (beliefs about language).
ANTHRO206A | Incas and their Ancestors: Peruvian Archaeology (ANTHRO 106, ARCHLGY 102B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO206A | instructors:Rick, J. (PI) description:The development of high civilizations in Andean S. America from hunter-gatherer origins to the powerful, expansive Inca empire. The contrasting ecologies of coast, sierra, and jungle areas of early Peruvian societies from 12,000 to 2,000 B.C.E. The domestication of indigenous plants which provided the economic foundation for monumental cities, ceramics, and textiles. Cultural evolution, and why and how major transformations occurred.
ANTHRO213B | Religious Practices in Archaeological Cultures (ANTHRO 113B, ARCHLGY 113B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO213B | instructors:Caval, S. (PI) description:According to Hawkes (1954), religion or ideology is the most difficult part of social life to access archaeologically. Luckily, not all scholars agree; according to Fogelin (2008) 'religion is not something people think about, but something people do¿. Thus, archaeology, an inherently multidisciplinary subject that studies material culture, is well suited to delve into religion and its underpinnings.nThis course will explore religious practices, as they can be defined and interpreted from archaeological contexts spanning the Paleolithic to historic periods. Definitions of religion differ from author to author but they mostly agree that religion is a fully integrated and thus integral part of human social life. Politics, economics, identity and social class influence religion, and religion influences how these forces play out in society. Thus, the course will also examine the significance of ritual and religion in a variety of social contexts.
ANTHRO215 | The Social life of Human Bones (ANTHRO 115, ARCHLGY 115) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO215 | instructors:Seetah, K. (PI) description:Skeletal remains serve a primary function of support and protection for the human body. However, beyond this, they have played a range of social roles once an individual is deceased. The processes associated with excarnation, interment, exhumation and reburial all speak to the place that the body, and its parts, play in our cultural as well as physical landscape.n	This course builds on introductory courses in human skeletal anatomy by adding the social dynamics that govern the way humans treat other humans once they have died. It draws on anthropological, biological and archaeological research, with case studies spanning a broad chronological and spatial framework to provide students with an overview of social practice as it relates to the human body.
ANTHRO219 | Zooarchaeology: An Introduction to Faunal Remains (ANTHRO 119, ARCHLGY 119) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO219 | instructors:Seetah, K. (PI) description:As regularly noted, whether historic or pre-historic, animal bones are often the most commonly occurring artefacts on archaeological sites. As bioarchaeological samples, they offer the archaeologist an insight into food culture, provisioning, trade and the social aspects of human-animal interactions. The course will be taught through both practical and lecture sessions: the `hands-on¿ component is an essential complement to the lectures. The lectures will offer grounding in the main methodological approaches developed, as well as provide case-studies to illustrate where and how the methods have been applied. The practical session will walk students through the skeletal anatomy of a range of species. It will guide students on the identification of different parts of the animal, how to age / sex individuals, as well as recognize taphonomic indicators and what these mean to reconstructing post-depositional modifications.
ANTHRO222A | Race and Culture in Mexico and Central America (ANTHRO 122A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO222A | instructors:Gonzalez, J. (PI) description:This course addresses the role of racial ideologies in the historical configuration of multiple hierarchies of inequality that determine the place of everyone in society in Mexico and Central America. Based on readings from the humanities and social sciences, we will discuss the cultural and racial politics of authoritarianism and indigenous insurgency, emphasizing narratives of laziness and vagrancy that have been central to the discipline of labor that shapes local processes of regressive modernization and nation building.  We will analyze the hegemony of dictatorship as political necessity, the relationship between local racisms and global Whiteness, and the emergence of new local and transnational contestations to the multiple hierarchies that determine the place of everyone in society.
ANTHRO222C | Research in Maya Hieroglyphic Writing (ANTHRO 122C) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO222C | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Workshop. Current issues in the decipherment and analysis of Maya hieroglyphic writing and literacy.
ANTHRO236 | The Anthropology of Global Supply Chains (ANTHRO 136) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO236 | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:This upper-division undergraduate seminar focuses on recent studies by anthropologists and scholars in related disciplines on global supply chains and consumption practices.The goal of the course is to assess concepts and methods for integrating a cultural analysis of transnational production with a cultural analysis of transnational consumption.  We will review ethnographic studies of the production and consumption of commodities linked by transnational and global networks. The class will thennpursue collaborative research on the global production, distribution, and consumption of a selected commodity.  Prerequisite: junior or senior standing and previous coursework in cultural anthropology or permission of instructor.
ANTHRO254B | Anthropology of Drugs: Experience, Capitalism, Modernity (ANTHRO 154, CSRE 154) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO254B | instructors:Garcia, A. (PI) description:This course examines the significant role ¿drugs¿ play in shaping expressions of the self and social life; in the management populations, and in the production of markets and inequality. It engages these themes through cultural representations of drugs and drug use, analyses of scientific discourse, and social theory. Topics include: the social construction of the licit and illicit; the shifting boundaries of deviance, disease and pleasure; and the relationship between local markets and global wars.
ANTHRO255 | Research Methods in Ecological Anthropology (ANTHRO 155) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO255 | instructors:Curran, L. (PI) description:The course prepare students for the methodological and practical aspects of doing ecologically oriented, quantitative anthropological field research. The primary goal is to explore what it means to ask anthropological questions in a systematic way. We will focus on understanding what can constitute an interesting question, how to frame a question in way that facilitates investigation, and how to design methods to begin investigating a question. In turn, the course will provide a format to refine research projects in preparation for doing more extensive fieldwork.
ANTHRO260 | Social and Environmental Sustainability: The Costa Rican Case (ANTHRO 160) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO260 | instructors:Durham, W. (PI) description:Seminar focused on issues of tropical sustainability with a particular emphasis on the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica.  Offered in conjunction with the Osa Initiative in the Wood¿s Institute for the Environment, the course highlights issues of human development in the tropics, through such means as agricultural development, ecotourism, conservation efforts, private and indigenous reserves, and mining.  The course will draw from diverse disciplines including anthropology, rural sociology, conservation biology, geosciences, history, political science, and journalism.  In addition to weekly discussions, students will development a research paper throughout the term which will be presented to a panel of selected Wood¿s Faculty during the final week of the term.
ANTHRO262 | Indigenous Peoples and Environmental Problems (ANTHRO 162) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO262 | instructors:Durham, W. (PI) description:The social and cultural consequences of contemporary environmental problems. The impact of market economies, development efforts, and conservation projects on indigenous peoples, emphasizing Latin America. The role of indigenous grass roots organizations in combating environmental destruction and degradation of homeland areas.
ANTHRO263A | Endangered Languages and Language Revitalization (ANTHRO 163A, LINGUIST 163A, LINGUIST 263, NATIVEAM 163) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO263A | instructors:Ogilvie, S. (PI) description:Languages around the world are dying at such a rapid rate that the next century could see half of the world's 6800 languages and cultures become extinct unless action is taken now. This course looks at how and why languages die, and what is lost from a culture when that occurs. We will investigate how this trend can be reversed by methods of language documentation and description, the use of innovative technologies, multimodal fieldwork, writing dictionaries and grammars for different audiences, language planning, and data creation, annotation, preservation, and dissemination. We will focus on a number of current programs around the world to revitalize languages. Finally, the course will examine ethical modes of fieldwork within endangered language communities, and the possibilities of successful collaborations and capacity building, focusing especially on Northern California Indian peoples and their languages.
ANTHRO266 | Political Ecology of Tropical Land Use: Conservation, Natural Resource Extraction, and Agribusiness (ANTHRO 166) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO266 | instructors:Curran, L. (PI) description:Seminar. The state, private sector, development agencies, and NGOs in development and conservation of tropical land use. Focus is on the socioeconomic and political drivers of resource extraction and agricultural production. Case studies used to examine the local-to-global context from many disciplines. Are maps and analyses used for gain, visibility, accountability, or contested terrain? How are power dynamics, land use history, state-private sector collusion, and neoliberal policies valued? What are the local and extra-local responses?
ANTHRO269 | The Ecology of Cuisine: Food, Nutrition, and the Evolution of the Human Diet (ANTHRO 169) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO269 | instructors:Bird, R. (PI) description:This course is an interdisciplinary approach to understanding human food consumption and nutrition, incorporating biological, evolutionary, ecological and social perspectives. Topics include a broad survey of primate diets and their physiological and behavioral correlates; fossil and archaeological evidence for early human diets; adaptations to dietary shifts since the Neolithic; infant and early child feeding practices and their role in shaping human social arrangements, metabolic syndrome, food security, food taboos; the origins of spices; cultural diversity in the social uses and meanings of food and the sharing of food; gathering, hunting and locavorism as high hipster cuisine. Emphasis is on understanding the diversity of human foodways through time and space: how biology, culture, and ecology interact to shape the food we eat, and how the food we eat shapes us.
ANTHRO270 | Australian Ecosystems: Human Dimensions and Environmental Dynamics (ANTHRO 170, EARTHSYS 172) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO270 | instructors:Bird, R. (PI); Bird, D. (GP) description:This cross-disciplinary course surveys the history and prehistory of human ecological dynamics in Australia, drawing on geology, climatology, archaeology, geography, ecology and anthropology to understand the mutual dynamic relationships between the continent and its inhabitants. Topics include anthropogenic fire and fire ecology, animal extinctions, aridity and climate variability, colonization and spread of Homo sapiens, invasive species interactions, changes in human subsistence and mobility throughout the Pleistocene and Holocene as read through the archaeological record, the totemic geography and social organization of Aboriginal people at the time of European contact, the ecological and geographical aspects of the "Dreamtime", and contemporary issues of policy relative to Aboriginal land tenure and management.
ANTHRO275 | Human Skeletal Anatomy (ANTHRO 175, BIO 174, BIO 274, HUMBIO 180) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO275 | instructors:Klein, R. (PI) description:Study of the human skeleton (a. k. a. human osteology), as it bears on other disciplines, including medicine, forensics, archaeology, and paleoanthropology (human evolution).  Basic bone biology, anatomy, and development, emphasizing hands-on examination and identification of human skeletal parts, their implications for determining an individual¿s age, sex, geographic origin, and health status, and for the evolutionary history of our species.  Three hours of lecture and at least three hours of supervised and independent study in the lab each week.
ANTHRO276 | Cultures, Minds, and Medicine (ANTHRO 176) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO276 | instructors:Luhrmann, T. (PI) description:This workshop aims to bring together scholars from the social sciences, humanities, medicine and bio-science and technology to explore the ways that health and illness are made through complex social forces. We aim for informal, interactive sessions, full of debate and good will. Dates of meetings will be listed in the notes section in the time schedule.
ANTHRO278 | Evolution and Conservation in Galapagos (ANTHRO 178) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO278 | instructors:Durham, W. (PI) description:The contribution of research in the Galapagos Islands to our current understanding of evolution and conservation.  Writings from Darwin to Dawkins, as they reveal patterns and processes of evolution including selection, adaptation, speciation, and coevolution.  Current conservation strategies in the archipelago, and urgent measures needed today before unique species and adaptations are lost.
ANTHRO282 | Medical Anthropology (ANTHRO 82, HUMBIO 176A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO282 | instructors:Kohrman, M. (PI) description:Emphasis is on how health, illness, and healing are understood, experienced, and constructed in social, cultural, and historical contexts. Topics: biopower and body politics, gender and reproductive technologies, illness experiences, medical diversity and social suffering, and the interface between medicine and science.
ANTHRO286 | Culture and Madness (ANTHRO 186) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO286 | instructors:Garcia, A. (PI) description:'Madness' lends insight into the construction of the normal and abnormal; the boundaries of reason and unreason; the epistemological relation of mind and body, and the management of difference and disease. Taking an interdisciplinary perspective, this course explores the fundamental questions madness poses to subjectivity, culture and modernity.
ANTHRO293B | Master's Thesis Writing Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO293B | instructors: description:May be repeated for credit.
ANTHRO298B | Digital Methods in Archaeology (ANTHRO 98B, ARCHLGY 98B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO298B | instructors:Rick, J. (PI) description:This is a course on digital technologies in archaeology used for documentation, visualization, and analysis of archaeological spaces and objects.  Emphasizes hands-on approaches to image manipulation, virtual reality, GIS, CAD, and photogrammetry modeling methods.
ANTHRO299 | Senior and Master's Paper Writing Workshop (ANTHRO 199) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO299 | instructors:Poggiali, L. (PI) description:Techniques of interpreting data, organizing bibliographic materials, writing, editing and revising. Preparation of papers for conferences and publications in anthropology. Seniors register for 199; master's students register for 299.
ANTHRO3 | Introduction to Prehistoric Archeology (ARCHLGY 1) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO3 | instructors:Rick, J. (PI) description:Aims, methods, and data in the study of human society's development from early hunters through late prehistoric civilizations. Archaeological sites and remains characteristic of the stages of cultural development for selected geographic areas, emphasizing methods of data collection and analysis appropriate to each.
ANTHRO300 | Reading Theory Through Ethnography | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO300 | instructors:Garcia, A. (PI) description:Required of and restricted to first-year ANTHRO Ph.D. students. Focus is on contemporary ethnography and related cultural and social theories generated by texts. Topics include agency, resistance, and identity formation, and discourse analysis. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO301 | History of Anthropological Theory, Culture and Society | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO301 | instructors:Ferguson, J. (PI) description:Required of Anthropology Ph.D. students. The history of cultural and social anthropology in relation to historical and national contexts and key theoretical and methodological issues as these inform contemporary theory and practices of the discipline. Enrollment limited to 15. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO301A | Foundations of Social Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO301A | instructors:Tambar, K. (PI) description:The purpose of this course is to introduce key themes in social theory - the social, the modern subject, reason, autonomy, civility, interests, exchange, morality, life, the senses - through a reading of classic texts from Descartes up to psychoanalysis and phenomenology. nnEach section has original texts, commentaries, and background readings that place these texts in their deeper historical setting. Many of these commentaries trace how practical theories of 'lower' or minor selves - the subject people of the colonies, slaves, and other - were integral to the very development of ideas of the modern, autonomous and reasonable self in the western world. Prerequisite, by instructor consent.
ANTHRO302 | History of Anthropological Theory, Ecology and Environment | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO302 | instructors:Bird, R. (PI); Bird, D. (GP) description:Evolutionary and ecological theory from the 19th century to present. Theory and concepts from evolution and ecology, emphasizing an-thropological applications. Evolutionary theories of human behavior, culture, and societies. Ecological theory behind carrying capacity, sustainable yield, and population growth. Emphasis is on tools of analysis and formulating research questions in anthropology today. Upper division undergrads require consent of instructor.
ANTHRO303 | Introduction to Archaeological Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO303 | instructors:Hodder, I. (PI) description:The history of archaeological thought emphasizing recent debates. Evolutionary theories, behavioral archaeology, processual and cognitive archaeology, and approaches termed feminist and post-processual archaeology in the context of wider debate in adjacent disciplines. The application and integration of theory on archaeological problems and issues. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO304 | Data Analysis for Quantitative Research | http://ANTHRO304.stanford.edu | instructors:Jones, J. (PI) description:Univariate, multivariate, and graphical methods used for analyzing quantitative data in anthropological research. Archaeological and paleobiological examples. Recommended: algebra. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO306 | Anthropological Research Methods | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO306 | instructors:Inoue, M. (PI) description:Required of ANTHRO Ph.D. students; open to all graduate students. Research methods and modes of evidence building in ethnographic research. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO307 | Archaeological Methods | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO307 | instructors:Liu, L. (PI) description:Methodological aspects of field and laboratory practice from traditional archaeological methods to the latest interdisciplinary analytical techniques. The nature of archaeological data and inference; interpretive potential of these techniques. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO308 | Proposal Writing Seminar in Cultural and Social Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO308 | instructors:Kohrman, M. (PI) description:Required of second-year Ph.D. students in the culture and society track. The conceptualization of dissertation research problems, the theories behind them, and the methods for exploring them. Participants draft a research prospectus suitable for a dissertation proposal and research grant applications. Limited enrollment. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO308A | Proposal Writing Seminar in Archaeology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO308A | instructors:Meskell, L. (PI) description:Required of second-year Ph.D. students in the archaeology track. The conceptualization of dissertation research problems, the theories behind them, and the methods for exploring them. Participants draft a research prospectus suitable for a dissertation proposal and research grant applications. Limited enrollment. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO30Q | The Big Shift | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO30Q | instructors:Wilcox, M. (PI) description:Is the middle class shrinking? How do people who live at the extremes of American society- the super rich, the working poor and those who live on the margins, imagine and experience "the good life"? How do we understand phenomena such as gang cultures, addiction and the realignment of white consciousness? This class uses the methods and modes of ethnographic study in an examination of American culture. Ethnographic materials range from an examination of the new American wealth boom of the last 20 years (Richistan by Robert Frank) to the extreme and deadlynworld of the invisible underclass of homeless addicts on the streets of San Francisco (Righteous Dopefiend by Phillipe Bourgois and Jeff Schonberg). The experiences of Hispanic immigrants and the struggle to escape gang life in Los Angeles are highlighted in the story of Homeboy Industries a job creation program initiated by a priest working in LA's most deadly neighborhoods (G-Dog and the Homeboys by Celeste Fremon). Finally in Searching for Whitopia: an improbable journeyninto the heart of White America, Rich Benjamin explores the creation on ethnic enclaves (whitopias) as fear over immigration and the shrinking white majority redefine race consciousnessnin the 21st century. Each of these narratives provides a window into the various ways in which Americans approach the subjects of wealth and the good life, poverty and the underclass, and thenconstruction of class, race, and gender in American society. Students will not be required to have any previous knowledge, just curiosity and an open mind.
ANTHRO310G | Introduction to Graduate Studies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO310G | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI); Power, E. (TA); Simpson, I. (TA); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:Required graduate seminar. The history of anthropological theory and key theoretical and methodological issues of the discipline. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO311G | Introduction to Culture and Society Graduate Studies in Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO311G | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI); Bozcali, F. (TA); Simpson, I. (TA); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:Required graduate seminar for CS track. The history of anthropological theory and key theoretical and methodological issues in cultural anthropology. Prerequistes: this course is open only to Ph.D. students in anthropology or by permission of the instructor.
ANTHRO316 | Politics of the Mass Subject | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO316 | instructors:Tambar, K. (PI) description:Harbinger of democracy or arbiter of tyrannous rule? Source of collective agency or threat to political order? Over the past century, notions of the masses, the multitudes, and the people have served as volatile focal points for political theory and for institutions of governance. Drawing on historical, ethnographic, and theoretical readings, this course explores how tensions haunting these concepts continue to animate, as much as beleaguer, contemporary discussions of democratic citizenship and political modernity.
ANTHRO324 | Political Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO324 | instructors:Ferguson, J. (PI) description:An anthropological approach to politics through bringing anthropological ways of thinking and modes of analysis to bear on key presuppositions of modern Western political thought. Ideas of rights, the individual, society, liberty, democracy, equality, and solidarity; ethnographic accounts used to identify the limits of conventional analytical approaches and to document the forms of politics that such approaches either ignore or misunderstand. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO326 | Postcolonial and Indigenous Archaeologies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO326 | instructors:Wilcox, M. (PI) description:The role of postcolonial and Indigenous archaeologies as emergeant disciplinary activities within contemporary society. Community based archaeologies; the roles of oral history, landscape, and memory; archaeology as political action; and history in archaeological projects. The emergence of Indigenous archaeology within N. America in relation to limitations imposed by processual or new archaeology; and NAGPRA, Kennewick, essentialism, and terminal narratives within this context. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO335A | Animism and Alter-Native Modernities (FRENCH 335A, REES 335A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO335A | instructors:Domanska, E. (PI) description:For many years indigenous knowledges were treated as a field of research for anthropologists and as "mistaken epistemologies," i. e., unscientific and irrational folklore and childish worldviews. This old view of animism was a product of the evolutionist and anthropocentric worldview of the Enlightenment. However within the framework of ecological humanities, current interest in posthumanism, postsecularism and discussions on building altermodernity (Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri), indigenous thought is used to critique modern epistemology and develop an alternative to the Western worldview. Treating native thought as an equivalent to Western knowledge is presented as a decolonizing and liberating practice. The term alter-native modernities as response to the challenges of Euromodernity and suggests modernities that might emerge out of indigenous ways of being in the world. Comparison between literature on indigenous cultures from Latin America and from Russia (animism in Amazonia and Siberia). Following recent works by anthropologists and archaeologists such as Nurit Bird-Rose, Philippe Descola, Graham Harvey, Tim Ingold and Viveiros de Castro, new animism is treated as an alternative (relational) ontology that allows rethinking the problem of matter and agency, goes beyond human exeptionalism and embraces non-humans. Topics include: alternative and alter-native modernities; Jean Piaget's theory of childhood animism; problem of anthropomorphism and personification; indigenous knowledge and the problem of epistemic violence; vitalist materialism (Jane Bennett, Rosi Braidotti); connectedness as the principle of life (relational epistemologies and ontologies); non-human agency (Bruno Latour).
ANTHRO34 | Animals and Us (ARCHLGY 34) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO34 | instructors:Seetah, K. (PI) description:The human-animal relationship is dynamic, all encompassing and durable. Without exception, all socio-cultural groups have evidenced complex interactions with the animals around them, both domesticated and wild. However, the individual circumstances of these interactions are hugely complicated, and involve much more than direct human-animal contact, going far beyond this to incorporate social, ecological and spiritual contexts.n	This course delves into this complexity, covering the gamut of social roles played by animals, as well as the methods and approaches to studying these, both traditional and scientific. While the notion of `animals as social actors¿ is well acknowledged, their use as proxies for human autecology (the relationship between a species and its environment) is also increasingly recognized as a viable mechanism for understanding our cultural and economic past. It will piece together the breadth of human-animal relationships using a wide geographic range of case studies.
ANTHRO345 | New Visions in Medical Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO345 | instructors:Kohrman, M. (PI) description:Recent experimental histories of the field. Emphasis is on how, working within anthropology's classic format, the ethnographic monograph, authors have innovatively responded to the challenges of representing amorphous, unspoken, and often violent relationships between the body and social change. The authors' expository techniques, and how they engage and extend theoretical debate. How to assess works within medical anthropology and its allied fields. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO346 | The Social Imagination | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO346 | instructors:Malkki, L. (PI) description:The imagination as such has not been an accustomed object of ethnographic fieldwork or theoretical debate in anthropology. This seminar consists of a cluster of thematic explorations including: the spatial imagination of states; the imagination of race, colonialism, and domination; the social imagination of evil and of the good; and conceptualizations of the creative imagination.
ANTHRO349 | Anthropology of Capitalism | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO349 | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:This advanced graduate seminar explores capitalism as an historically-situated and culturally-mediated articulation of practices rather than as an economic system or social structure governed by an internal logic.  It draws on poststructural theories of culture, society and subjectivity to investigate the processes through which diverse capitalist practices are produced.  Prerequisite:  Graduate standing in Anthropology or permission of the instructor.  Previous graduate level coursework in cultural anthropology, social theory or cultural studies is required.  No auditing is permitted. Enrollment limited to 12.
ANTHRO358 | Anthropology and the Limit of Experience | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO358 | instructors:Garcia, A. (PI) description:In this course, we will examine the concept of the ¿limit¿ in relation to questions of experience.  Taking an interdisciplinary perspective, we will explore how the limit (as border, threshold, other, transgression, liminality, etc.) frames and disrupts discourses of experience in ethnography, philosophy and literature.
ANTHRO360 | Social Structure and Social Networks | http://ANTHRO360.stanford.edu | instructors:Jones, J. (PI) description:In this course, we will explore social network analysis, a set of methods and theories used in the analysis of social structure. The fundamental conceit underlying social network analysis is that social structure emerges from relationships between individuals. We will therefore concentrate in particular on the measurement of relationships, emphasizing especially practical methodology for anthropological fieldwork. This is a somewhat unusual course because of its focus on social network research coming out of anthropological and ethological traditions. While most current practitioners of social network analysis are (probably) sociologists, many of both the methodological antecedents and theoretical justifications for the field can be found in these two traditions. A major goal of this course is to understand how the methods and perspectives of social network analysis can be usefully incorporated into contemporary approaches to ethnography and other anthropological modes of investigation. Prerequisite: graduate standing or consent of instructor
ANTHRO364 | EcoGroup: Current Topics in Ecological, Evolutionary, and Environmental Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO364 | instructors:Jones, J. (PI) description:Seminar; restricted to graduate students. Topics vary with instructor. How to ask appropriate questions, how to derive research hypotheses from theory, how to design methodologies for testing hypotheses, and how to present results by reading and critiquing key contemporary papers in the field. Ph.D. students enrolling in this course to fulfill the department review course requirement must enroll in 5 units. Graduate students enrolling in this course to participate in a topical forum may enroll in 2 units. Course may be repeated for 2 units. Prerequisites: by consent of instructor.
ANTHRO369 | Advanced Topics in Human Behavioral | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO369 | instructors:Bird, R. (PI) description:Course covers a variety of advanced topics which rotate annually, such as: ownership and egalitarianism, the integration of landscape and behavioral ecology, conservation and indigenous subsistence, or fertility and demography. Course may be repeated for credit when topics change.
ANTHRO372 | Urban Ecologies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO372 | instructors:Ebron, P. (PI) description:At the intersections of urbanism and environmental studies, political ecology, postcolonial theory and the new materialism, new fields are in formation. This seminar explores scholarship that connects cities with countrysides rough questions of resources and infrastructures. We will consider questions id inequality access and community as well as unexpected urban ecologies
ANTHRO373 | Things: An Archaeology of the Relationships Between Humans and Things | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO373 | instructors:Hodder, I. (PI) description:This course examines a variety of approaches that claim to explore the relationships between humans and things. Some of the approaches include Marx and material culture studies; Heidegger; cognitive and phenomenological; Actor Network Theory. But there is a need also to examine behavioral and ecological and Darwinian approaches. Many of these approaches do not adequately deal with the physicality of things as objects and there is a need to seek a way to incorporate such aspects of things into social theory. Prerequisite: graduate standing or consent of instructor
ANTHRO377 | The Mystery of Ministry: What is Authority? | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO377 | instructors:Thiranagama, S. (PI) description:Why do people obey others in the absence of explicit coercion? Why do people accept some leaders but not others? What does it mean to say something or someone has authority? Is authority personal or institutional? Why do people believe in the Pope? Why do people believe some objects have power and others not? Is charisma only a perfume? Can institutions wield charismatic power? These are questions that from Max Weber onwards classical and contemporary anthropologists and sociologists continue to ask.nnIn returning to (Weberian) questions of authority and legitimacy this course takes a question posed by Bourdieu ¿ what is the mystery of ministry? We will apply the question of authority broadly, not just in the explicitly political realm but also to understand, for example, how (culturally specific) charismatic and sacral authority can be fashioned through persons and through objects (eg. relics). The course will thus move between interrelated religious, moral, and political notions to try to generate some critical questions for how a contemporary anthropology that explicitly (rather than implicitly) re-addresses authority might look.
ANTHRO379 | Empathy Lab (TAPS 284, TAPS 384) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO379 | instructors:Jain, S. (PI) description:This lab-based class examines the ways in which various disciplines and art forms conceive of, and tell stories about, the experiences and stories of others. With permission of instructor.
ANTHRO384 | Sacrifice, Ethics and Modern Convictions | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO384 | instructors:Hansen, T. (PI) description:This course is an investigation of how notions of sacrifice, of ethics and conviction are embedded in both ordinary and extraordinary practices in our contemporary world. The key question is how the modern global condition has transformed the way in which it is possible to hold convictions, and to frame forms of ethical conduct, be they religious or secular. We will ask if convictions based on choice or moral outrage differ from convictions based on inhabiting and reversing stigmatized racial and social identities. Rather than maintaining a categorical distinction between `the religious¿ and `the secular¿, we will focus on how groups and individuals have attached themselves passionately to ideas, abstractions, ritual communities or ethical frames. When do certain attachments appear necessary and compelling, almost beyond choice? How does one forge a sense of ethics and ethical conduct through social media rather than face-to-face contact?n nStudents will acquire a grounded and guided understanding of philosophical and anthropological theories of ideas of ethics, sacrifice, and political conviction as well as explore these ideas through contemporary ethnographic contexts.nReadings will be philosophical, historical and ethnographic ¿ drawing on original texts and ethnographic accounts from Europe, Asia and Africa.
ANTHRO387 | Strangers and Intimate: Exploring Civility | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO387 | instructors:Thiranagama, S. (PI) description:How do we encounter and read each other in public and private spaces? How are these very spaces historically constituted around such distinctions and manners of reading? What do these questions look like in dense heterogeneous cities with differentiated class, caste and ethnic communities? How might we consider the differentiation between private and public in different ethnographic contexts? What kinds of sociality might emerge from these kinds of encounters? This course will explore these questions through social theory and ethnographies. There are two major sets of concepts that will be explored and interrogated. The first is that deriving from the essays of the Georg Simmel such as ¿The Face¿ and ¿The Stranger¿ which explore the new forms of sociality enabled by seemingly anonymous city life, which in turn have been interpreted very differently by Zygmunt Bauman and James Siegel to understand the place of continually excluded outsiders and the high stakes of reading each other. The other is the strand of work on the emergence of the public sphere such as the work of Jurgen Habermas, Richard Sennet, Michael Warner, Nancy Fraser etc. While much of the social theory on the public, the stranger and civility emerge from studies of Euro-American mas politics and city spaces, in this course we will move some of these discussion into considering these questions in the global south and the kinds of sociality (including their historicity) that make up the dense fabric of ordinary life. How does this work out in contexts where we take into account intense social differentiation by class, race, and communitarian divisions? This could be asked of the historical and social context addressed in these theories as well as from the postcolonial world. The course will attempt to understand whether such theorizations can indeed be re-rooted and re-imagined or whether ethnographic and historical difference re-route them instead. In doing so we will also bring theories of the private and the intimate to bear on questions of the public and the stranger.
ANTHRO388 | Anthropology of the Extraordinary: Ontologies and Phenomenologies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO388 | instructors:Luhrmann, T. (PI) description:In the last few years anthropology has taken what has come to be called an ¿ontological turn¿ in which the ways an object or experience is felt to be real is explored from different perspectives.  Often this involves exploring phenomena (like ghosts, talking trees and humans who become jaguars) which could be called ¿extraordinary¿ and which challenge secular, western expectations of what is real.  There has also been a ¿phenomenological turn¿ in which anthropologists have become interested in classifying and categorizing human experience in particular detail. The class will explore the scholarship in this area. Readings will include an introduction to classic philosophical writing (William James, Karl Jaspers, Martin Heidegger) and more recent work such as David Hufford, The Terror that Comes in the Night; Eduardo Kohn How Forests Think; Morton Pederson Not Quite Shamans; Ann Taves Religious Experience Reconsidered;  Annemarie Mol, The Body Multiple; Roger Lohmann Dream Travelers, and others.
ANTHRO389 | Ethnographic Writing and Beyond | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO389 | instructors:Jain, S. (PI) description:In this class we analyze anthropological writing that has examined and pushed the bounds of the discipline. We will focus on how writing itself is a practice in anthropology, and how styles of writing impact argument, affect, and ultimately, the discipline itself. Students will also work in different genres of writing to better understand writing as a craft, a discipline, and a means of communication.
ANTHRO4 | Language and Culture (ANTHRO 204) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO4 | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Comparative approach, using examples from many languages. Emphasis is on generally non-Western speech communities. Topics include: the structure of language; the theory of signs; vocabulary and culture; grammar, cognition, and culture (linguistic relativism and determinism); encodability of cultural information in language; language adaptiveness to social function; the ethnography of speaking; registers; discourse (conversation, narrative, verbal art); language and power; language survival and extinction; and linguistic ideology (beliefs about language).
ANTHRO400 | Dissertation Writers Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO400 | instructors:Malkki, L. (PI) description:Required of fifth-year Ph.D. students returning from dissertation field research and in the process of writing dissertations and preparing for professional employment. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO401A | Qualifying Examination: Topic | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO401A | instructors:Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Roberts, R. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Wolf, A. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Required of second- and third-year Ph.D. students writing the qualifying paper or the qualifying written examination. May be repeat for credit.
ANTHRO401B | Qualifying Examination: Area | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO401B | instructors:Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Required of second- and third-year Ph.D. students writing the qualifying paper or the qualifying written examination. May be repeated for credit one time.
ANTHRO41 | Genes and Identity (AFRICAAM 41, CSRE 41A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO41 | instructors:Fullwiley, D. (PI) description:In recent decades genes have increasingly become endowed with the cultural power to explain many aspects of human life: physical traits, diseases, behaviors, ancestral histories, and identity.  In this course we will explore a deepening societal intrigue with genetic accounts of personal identity and political meaning.  Students will engage with varied interdisciplinary sources that range from legal cases to scientific articles, medical ethics guidelines, films, and anthropological works (ethnographies).  We will explore several case studies where the use of DNA markers (as proof of heritage, disease risk, or legal standing) has spawned cultural movements that are biosocial in nature.  Throughout we will look at how new social movements are organized around gene-based definitions of personhood, health, and legal truth. Several examples include political analyses of citizenship and belonging.  On this count we will discuss issues of African ancestry testing as evidence in slavery reparations cases, revisit debates on whether Black Freedman should be allowed into the Cherokee and Seminole Nations, and hear arguments on whether people with genetic links to Jewish groups should have a right of return to Israel. We will also examine the ways genetic knowledge may shape different health politics at the individual and societal level. On this count we will do close readings of how personal genomics testing companies operate, we will investigate how health disparities funding as well as orphan disease research take on new valences when re-framed in genetic terms, and we will see how new articulations of global health priorities are emerging through genetic research in places like Africa.  Finally we will explore social implications of forensic uses of DNA.  Here we will examine civil liberties concerns about genetic familial searching in forensic databases that disproportionately target specific minority groups as criminal suspects, and inquire into the use of DNA to generate digital mugshots of suspects that re-introduce genetic concepts of race.
ANTHRO42 | Megacities | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO42 | instructors:Jain, S. (PI) description:In this course we will examine the meaning, processes, and challenges of urbanization. Through a series of targeted readings across history and geography and through the study of varied means of representation (anthropology, literature, cartography, film, etc), the class will analyze the ways in which urban forms have come into being and created, met, and/or ignored challenges such as disease, water, transport, religious and class conflict, colonialism, labor, and trade. Students will read anthropology in conjunction with other disciplines (literature, urban planning, public health, architecture, and economics) to learn the ways in which ethnographies of immigration, urban poverty, class disparity, economic development and indicators, noise, and transportation substantively augment our understandings of how people live within globalization.
ANTHRO440 | Teaching Assistantship | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO440 | instructors:Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Roberts, R. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Supervised experience as assistant in one undergraduate course.
ANTHRO441 | Master's Research Thesis | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO441 | instructors:Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Coll, K. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Lee, S. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Maguire, M. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Romain, T. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Truncer, J. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI); Zeiderman, A. (PI); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:Supervised work for terminal and coterminal master's students writing the master's project in the final quarter of the degree program.
ANTHRO442 | Reading Group | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO442 | instructors:Hansen, T. (PI) description:Graduate student reading group on a thematic topic of interest.nIntended for first or second-year cohort PhD students.nSections: Liisa Malkki, Sylvia Yanagisako, Thomas Hansen, Paulla Ebron, andnMiyako Inoue
ANTHRO444 | Anthropology Colloquium | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO444 | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:Department Colloquia Lecture Series.  Lectures presented on a variety of anthropological topics.  Colloquium is intended for the Department of Anthropology's under graduate majors and graduate students. May be repeated for credit.
ANTHRO445 | Anthropology Brown Bag Series | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO445 | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:Current topics and trends in cultural/social anthropology, archaeology, and environmental and ecological anthropology.  Enrollment in this noon-time series is restricted to the Department of Anthropology Master¿s students and First and Second-year PhD students.
ANTHRO450 | Research Apprenticeship | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO450 | instructors:Befu, H. (PI); Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Codding, B. (PI); Coll, K. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Glover, S. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Lee, S. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Marciniak, A. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Reinhart, K. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Salkeld, D. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Supervised work on a research project with an individual faculty member. May be repeated for credit.
ANTHRO451 | Directed Individual Study | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO451 | instructors:Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Maguire, M. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Wolf, A. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI); Bird, D. (GP) description:Supervised work for a qualifying paper, examination, or project with an individual faculty member.
ANTHRO452 | Graduate Internship | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO452 | instructors:Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Codding, B. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); McDermott, R. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Salkeld, D. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Provides graduate students with the opportunity to pursue their area of specialization in an institutional setting such as a laboratory, clinic, research institute, or government agency.
ANTHRO49 | Violence and Belonging in the Middle East | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO49 | instructors:Tambar, K. (PI) description:This course examines politics in the Middle East from an anthropological perspective. We will explore the symbolic expression of political identities, the effects of religious revival on political institutions, and the tumultuous culture of protest in the region. Readings discuss the historical development of rights and citizenship, Islamic politics, sectarian tensions, and imaginings of revolution. Course materials are drawn from ethnographic studies and films, which provide a rich contextualization of social life and cultural politics in the region.
ANTHRO801 | TGR Project | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO801 | instructors:Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:
ANTHRO802 | TGR Dissertation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO802 | instructors:Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Codding, B. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Gardiner, M. (PI); Ghani, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hublin, J. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Lee, S. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Morell-Hart, S. (PI); Murphy-Shigematsu, S. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Wolf, A. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI); Bird, D. (GP); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:
ANTHRO82 | Medical Anthropology (ANTHRO 282, HUMBIO 176A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO82 | instructors:Kohrman, M. (PI); Auerbach, J. (GP); Rice, J. (GP); Richlin, J. (GP) description:Emphasis is on how health, illness, and healing are understood, experienced, and constructed in social, cultural, and historical contexts. Topics: biopower and body politics, gender and reproductive technologies, illness experiences, medical diversity and social suffering, and the interface between medicine and science.
ANTHRO90B | Theory of Cultural and Social Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO90B | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Preference to Anthropology majors. Anthropological interpretations of other societies contain assumptions about Western societies. How underlying assumptions and implicit categories have influenced the presentation of data in major anthropological monographs. Emphasis is on Karl Marx, Emile Durkheim, Max Weber, and anthropological analyses of non-Western societies.
ANTHRO90C | Theory of Ecological and Environmental Anthropology (HUMBIO 118) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO90C | instructors:Bird, D. (PI) description:Dynamics of culturally inherited human behavior and its relationship to social and physical environments. Topics include a history of ecological approaches in anthropology, subsistence ecology, sharing, risk management, territoriality, warfare, and resource conservation and management. Case studies from Australia, Melanesia, Africa, and S. America.
ANTHRO91 | Method and Evidence in Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO91 | instructors:Ebron, P. (PI) description:This course provides a broad introduction to various ways of designing anthropological questions and associated methods for collecting evidence and supporting arguments. We review the inherent links between how a question is framed, the types of evidence that can address the question, and way that data are collected. Research activities such as interviewing, participant observation, quantitative observation, archival investigation, ecological survey, linguistic methodology, tracking extended cases, and demographic methods are reviewed. Various faculty and specialists will be brought in to discuss how they use different types of evidence and methods for supporting arguments in anthropology.
ANTHRO91A | Archaeological Methods (ARCHLGY 102) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO91A | instructors:Seetah, K. (PI) description:Methodological issues related to the investigation of archaeological sites and objects. Aims and techniques of archaeologists including: location and excavation of sites; dating of places and objects; analysis of artifacts and technology and the study of ancient people, plants, and animals. How these methods are employed to answer the discipline's larger research questions.
ANTHRO92A | Undergraduate Research Proposal Writing Workshop | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO92A | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:Practicum. Students develop independent research projects and write research proposals. How to formulate a research question; how to integrate theory and field site; and step-by-step proposal writing.
ANTHRO92B | Undergraduate Research Proposal Writing Workshop | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO92B | instructors:Yanagisako, S. (PI); Power, E. (GP) description:Practicum. Students develop independent research projects and write research proposals. How to formulate a research question; how to integrate theory and field site; and step-by-step proposal writing.
ANTHRO93 | Prefield Research Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO93 | instructors:Inoue, M. (PI) description:For Anthropology majors only; non-majors register for 93B. Preparation for anthropological field research in other societies and the U.S. Data collection techniques include participant observation, interviewing, surveys, sampling procedures, life histories, ethnohistory, and the use of documentary materials. Strategies of successful entry into the community, research ethics, interpersonal dynamics, and the reflexive aspects of fieldwork. Prerequisites: two ANTHRO courses or consent of instructor.
ANTHRO93B | Prefield Research Seminar: Non-Majors | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO93B | instructors:Poggiali, L. (PI) description:Preparation for anthropological field research in other societies and the U.S. Data collection techniques include participant observation, interviewing, surveys, sampling procedures, life histories, ethnohistory, and the use of documentary materials. Strategies for successful entry into the community, research ethics, interpersonal dynamics, and the reflexive aspects of fieldwork. Service Learning Course (certified by Haas Center).
ANTHRO94 | Postfield Research Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO94 | instructors:Malkki, L. (PI) description:Goal is to produce an ethnographic report based on original field research gathered during summer fieldwork, emphasizing writing and revising as steps in analysis and composition. Students critique classmates' work and revise their own writing in light of others' comments. Ethical issues in fieldwork and ethnographic writing, setting research write-up concerns within broader contexts.
ANTHRO95 | Research in Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO95 | instructors:Befu, H. (PI); Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Codding, B. (PI); Coll, K. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Duffey, C. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Engel, C. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Maguire, M. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Marciniak, A. (PI); Melillo, S. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Morell-Hart, S. (PI); Murungi, C. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Salkeld, D. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Wolf, A. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Independent research conducted under faculty supervision, normally taken junior or senior year in pursuit of a senior paper or an honors project. May be repeated for credit.
ANTHRO95B | Directed Study in Honors and Senior Papers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO95B | instructors:Befu, H. (PI); Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Codding, B. (PI); Coll, K. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Droney, D. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Marciniak, A. (PI); Melillo, S. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Morell-Hart, S. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Salkeld, D. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI); Coughlan, S. (GP) description:Taken in the final quarter before graduation. Independent study and work on senior paper for students admitted to the program. Prerequisite: consent of program adviser and instructor.
ANTHRO96 | Directed Individual Study | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO96 | instructors:Befu, H. (PI); Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Briault, C. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Codding, B. (PI); Coll, K. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Droney, D. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Engel, C. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Gardiner, M. (PI); Garvey, R. (PI); Ghani, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jobin, M. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Maguire, M. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Melillo, S. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Morell-Hart, S. (PI); Reinhart, K. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Salkeld, D. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI); Zeiderman, A. (PI) description:Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
ANTHRO97 | Internship in Anthropology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO97 | instructors:Befu, H. (PI); Bird, D. (PI); Bird, R. (PI); Brown, M. (PI); Codding, B. (PI); Coll, K. (PI); Curran, L. (PI); Domanska, E. (PI); Droney, D. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Ebron, P. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Fox, J. (PI); Fullwiley, D. (PI); Garcia, A. (PI); Ghani, A. (PI); Hansen, T. (PI); Hodder, I. (PI); Hunt, C. (PI); Inoue, M. (PI); Jain, S. (PI); Jones, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Kohrman, M. (PI); Kunanbaeva, A. (PI); Luhrmann, T. (PI); Malkki, L. (PI); Marciniak, A. (PI); Melillo, S. (PI); Meskell, L. (PI); Morell-Hart, S. (PI); Rick, J. (PI); Robertson, I. (PI); Salkeld, D. (PI); Seetah, K. (PI); Tambar, K. (PI); Thiranagama, S. (PI); Voss, B. (PI); Wilcox, M. (PI); Yanagisako, S. (PI) description:Opportunity for students to pursue their specialization in an institutional setting such as a laboratory, clinic, research institute, or government agency. May be repeated for credit. Service Learning Course (certified by Haas Center).
ANTHRO98B | Digital Methods in Archaeology (ANTHRO 298B, ARCHLGY 98B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ANTHRO98B | instructors:Rick, J. (PI) description:This is a course on digital technologies in archaeology used for documentation, visualization, and analysis of archaeological spaces and objects.  Emphasizes hands-on approaches to image manipulation, virtual reality, GIS, CAD, and photogrammetry modeling methods.
