arxiv-1706-06535 | Combining edge and cloud computing for mobility analytics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06535 | id:1706.06535 author:Ikechukwu Maduako, Hung Cao, Lilian Hernandez, Monica Wachowicz category:cs.DC cs.CY cs.NI  published:2017-06-20 summary:Mobility analytics using data generated from the Internet of Mobile Things (IoMT) is facing many challenges which range from the ingestion of data streams coming from a vast number of fog nodes and IoMT devices to avoiding overflowing the cloud with useless massive data streams that can trigger bottlenecks [1]. Managing data flow is becoming an important part of the IoMT because it will dictate in which platform analytical tasks should run in the future. Data flows are usually a sequence of out-of-order tuples with a high data input rate, and mobility analytics requires a real-time flow of data in both directions, from the edge to the cloud, and vice-versa. Before pulling the data streams to the cloud, edge data stream processing is needed for detecting missing, broken, and duplicated tuples in addition to recognize tuples whose arrival time is out of order. Analytical tasks such as data filtering, data cleaning and low-level data contextualization can be executed at the edge of a network. In contrast, more complex analytical tasks such as graph processing can be deployed in the cloud, and the results of ad-hoc queries and streaming graph analytics can be pushed to the edge as needed by a user application. Graphs are efficient representations used in mobility analytics because they unify knowledge about connectivity, proximity and interaction among moving things. This poster describes the preliminary results from our experimental prototype developed for supporting transit systems, in which edge and cloud computing are combined to process transit data streams forwarded from fog nodes into a cloud. The motivation of this research is to understand how to perform meaningfulness mobility analytics on transit feeds by combining cloud and fog computing architectures in order to improve fleet management, mass transit and remote asset monitoring version:1
arxiv-1706-06511 | Optimal modularity and memory capacity of neural networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06511 | id:1706.06511 author:Nathaniel Rodriguez, Eduardo Izquierdo, Yong-Yeol Ahn category:cs.NE cs.AI physics.bio-ph  published:2017-06-20 summary:Neural networks are powerful computing tools that have been exploited by evolution and by humans for solving diverse problems. Although the computational capabilities of neural networks are determined by their structure, the current understanding of the relationships between a neural network's structure and function is still primitive. Here we reveal that neural network's modular structure plays a vital role in determining the neural dynamics and memory performance of the network. In particular, we demonstrate that there exists an optimal modularity for memory performance, where a balance between local cohesion and global connectivity is established. Not only can optimally modular networks remember longer, they also allow for more information storage. We argue that an information diffusion model can provide insights into the optimal modularity phenomenon. Our results suggest that insights from dynamical analysis of neural networks and information spreading processes can be leveraged to better design neural networks and potentially shed light on the brain's modular organization. version:1
arxiv-1706-06462 | Towards Proof Synthesis Guided by Neural Machine Translation for Intuitionistic Propositional Logic | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06462 | id:1706.06462 author:Taro Sekiyama, Akifumi Imanishi, Kohei Suenaga category:cs.PL cs.AI cs.LO  published:2017-06-20 summary:Inspired by the recent evolution of deep neural networks (DNNs) in machine learning, we explore their application to PL-related topics. This paper is the first step towards this goal; we propose a proof-synthesis method for the negation-free propositional logic in which we use a DNN to obtain a guide of proof search. The idea is to view the proof-synthesis problem as a translation from a proposition to its proof. We train seq2seq, which is a popular network in neural machine translation, so that it generates a proof encoded as a $\lambda$-term of a given proposition. We implement the whole framework and empirically observe that a generated proof term is close to a correct proof in terms of the tree edit distance of AST. This observation justifies using the output from a trained seq2seq model as a guide for proof search. version:1
arxiv-1706-06454 | Informed Sampling for Asymptotically Optimal Path Planning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06454 | id:1706.06454 author:Jonathan D Gammell, Timothy D Barfoot, Siddhartha S Srinivasa category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-20 summary:Anytime almost-surely asymptotically optimal planners, such as RRT*, incrementally find paths to every state in the search domain. This is inefficient once an initial solution is found as then only states that can provide a better solution need to be considered. Exact knowledge of these states requires solving the problem but can be approximated with heuristics. This paper formally defines these sets of states and demonstrates how they can be used to analyze arbitrary planning problems. It uses the well-known $L^2$ norm (i.e., Euclidean distance) to analyze minimum-path-length problems and shows that existing approaches decrease in effectiveness factorially (i.e., faster than exponentially) with state dimension. It presents a method to address this curse of dimensionality by directly sampling the prolate hyperspheroids (i.e., symmetric $n$-dimensional ellipses) that define the $L^2$ informed set. The importance of this direct informed sampling technique is demonstrated with Informed RRT*. This extension of RRT* has less theoretical dependence on state dimension and problem size than existing techniques and allows for linear convergence on some problems. It is shown experimentally to find better solutions faster than existing techniques on both abstract planning problems and HERB, a two-arm manipulation robot. version:1
arxiv-1706-07294 | A Framework for Accurate Drought Forecasting System Using Semantics-Based Data Integration Middleware | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.07294 | id:1706.07294 author:A. K. Akanbi, M. Masinde category:cs.DB cs.AI  published:2017-06-20 summary:Technological advancement in Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) has made it become an invaluable component of a reliable environmental monitoring system; they form the digital skin' through which to 'sense' and collect the context of the surroundings and provides information on the process leading to complex events such as drought. However, these environmental properties are measured by various heterogeneous sensors of different modalities in distributed locations making up the WSN, using different abstruse terms and vocabulary in most cases to denote the same observed property, causing data heterogeneity. Adding semantics and understanding the relationships that exist between the observed properties, and augmenting it with local indigenous knowledge is necessary for an accurate drought forecasting system. In this paper, we propose the framework for the semantic representation of sensor data and integration with indigenous knowledge on drought using a middleware for an efficient drought forecasting system. version:1
arxiv-1706-06383 | Programmable Agents | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06383 | id:1706.06383 author:Misha Denil, Sergio Gómez Colmenarejo, Serkan Cabi, David Saxton, Nando de Freitas category:cs.AI cs.NE stat.ML  published:2017-06-20 summary:We build deep RL agents that execute declarative programs expressed in formal language. The agents learn to ground the terms in this language in their environment, and can generalize their behavior at test time to execute new programs that refer to objects that were not referenced during training. The agents develop disentangled interpretable representations that allow them to generalize to a wide variety of zero-shot semantic tasks. version:1
arxiv-1706-09248 | Logic Programming for an Introductory Computer Science Course for High School Students | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.09248 | id:1706.09248 author:Timothy Yuen, Maritz Reyes, Yuanlin Zhang category:cs.CY cs.AI  published:2017-06-20 summary:This paper investigates how high school students approach computing through an introductory computer science course situated in the Logic Programming (LP) paradigm. This study shows how novice students operate within the LP paradigm while engaging in foundational computing concepts and skills, and presents a case for LP as a viable paradigm choice for introductory CS courses. version:1
arxiv-1706-06366 | A Thorough Formalization of Conceptual Spaces | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06366 | id:1706.06366 author:Lucas Bechberger, Kai-Uwe Kühnberger category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-20 summary:The highly influential framework of conceptual spaces provides a geometric way of representing knowledge. Instances are represented by points in a high-dimensional space and concepts are represented by convex regions in this space. After pointing out a problem with the convexity requirement, we propose a formalization of conceptual spaces based on fuzzy star-shaped sets. Our formalization uses a parametric definition of concepts and extends the original framework by adding means to represent correlations between different domains in a geometric way. Moreover, we define computationally efficient operations on concepts (intersection, union, and projection onto a subspace) and show that these operations can support both learning and reasoning processes. version:1
arxiv-1706-06954 | Web-STAR: Towards a Visual Web-Based IDE for a Story Comprehension System | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06954 | id:1706.06954 author:Christos Rodosthenous, Loizos Michael category:cs.HC cs.AI  published:2017-06-20 summary:In this work, we present Web-STAR, an online platform for story understanding built on top of the STAR (STory comprehension through ARgumentation) reasoning engine. This platform includes a web-based IDE, integration with the STAR system and a web service infrastructure to support integration with other systems that rely on story understanding functionality to complete their tasks. The platform also delivers a number of "social" features like public story sharing with a built-in commenting system, a public repository for sharing stories with the community and collaboration tools that can be used from both project team members for development and educators for teaching. Moreover, we discuss the ongoing work on adding new features and functionality to this platform. version:1
arxiv-1707-01865 | An Online Development Environment for Answer Set Programming | http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.01865 | id:1707.01865 author:Elias Marcopoulos, Christian Reotutar, Yuanlin Zhang category:cs.OH cs.AI cs.HC  published:2017-06-20 summary:Recent progress in logic programming (e.g., the development of the Answer Set Programming paradigm) has made it possible to teach it to general undergraduate and even high school students. Given the limited exposure of these students to computer science, the complexity of downloading, installing and using tools for writing logic programs could be a major barrier for logic programming to reach a much wider audience. We developed an online answer set programming environment with a self contained file system and a simple interface, allowing users to write logic programs and perform several tasks over the programs. version:1
arxiv-1706-06333 | Fast Load Balancing Approach for Growing Clusters by Bioinformatics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06333 | id:1706.06333 author:Soumen Kanrar category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-20 summary:This paper presents Fast load balancing technique inspired by Bioinformatics is a special case to assign a particular patient with a specialist physician cluster at real time. The work is considered soft presentation of the Gaussian mixture model based on the extracted features supplied by patients. Based on the likelihood ratio test, the patient is assigned to a specialist physician cluster. The presented algorithms efficiently handle any size and any numbers of incoming patient requests and rapidly placed them to the specialist physician cluster. Hence it smoothly balances the traffic load of patients even at a hazard situation in the case of natural calamities. The simulation results are presented with variable size of specialist physician clusters that well address the issue for randomly growing patient size. version:1
arxiv-1706-06328 | Session Analysis using Plan Recognition | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06328 | id:1706.06328 author:Reuth Mirsky, Ya'akov Gal, David Tolpin category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-20 summary:This paper presents preliminary results of our work with a major financial company, where we try to use methods of plan recognition in order to investigate the interactions of a costumer with the company's online interface. In this paper, we present the first steps of integrating a plan recognition algorithm in a real-world application for detecting and analyzing the interactions of a costumer. It uses a novel approach for plan recognition from bare-bone UI data, which reasons about the plan library at the lowest recognition level in order to define the relevancy of actions in our domain, and then uses it to perform plan recognition. We present preliminary results of inference on three different use-cases modeled by domain experts from the company, and show that this approach manages to decrease the overload of information required from an analyst to evaluate a costumer's session - whether this is a malicious or benign session, whether the intended tasks were completed, and if not - what actions are expected next. version:1
arxiv-1706-02149 | Experiments of posture estimation on vehicles using wearable acceleration sensors | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02149 | id:1706.02149 author:Yoji Yamato category:cs.HC cs.DC  published:2017-06-06 summary:In this paper, we study methods to estimate drivers' posture in vehicles using acceleration data of wearable sensor and conduct a field test. Recently, sensor technologies have been progressed. Solutions of safety management to analyze vital data acquired from wearable sensor and judge work status are proposed. To prevent huge accidents, demands for safety management of bus and taxi are high. However, acceleration of vehicles is added to wearable sensor in vehicles, and there is no guarantee to estimate drivers' posture accurately. Therefore, in this paper, we study methods to estimate driving posture using acceleration data acquired from T-shirt type wearable sensor hitoe, conduct field tests and implement a sample application. version:2
arxiv-1706-06216 | Dualing GANs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06216 | id:1706.06216 author:Yujia Li, Alexander Schwing, Kuan-Chieh Wang, Richard Zemel category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CV stat.ML  published:2017-06-19 summary:Generative adversarial nets (GANs) are a promising technique for modeling a distribution from samples. It is however well known that GAN training suffers from instability due to the nature of its maximin formulation. In this paper, we explore ways to tackle the instability problem by dualizing the discriminator. We start from linear discriminators in which case conjugate duality provides a mechanism to reformulate the saddle point objective into a maximization problem, such that both the generator and the discriminator of this 'dualing GAN' act in concert. We then demonstrate how to extend this intuition to non-linear formulations. For GANs with linear discriminators our approach is able to remove the instability in training, while for GANs with nonlinear discriminators our approach provides an alternative to the commonly used GAN training algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1704-01944 | The quality of priority ratios estimation in relation to a selected prioritization procedure and consistency measure for a Pairwise Comparison Matrix | http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.01944 | id:1704.01944 author:Paul Thaddeus Kazibudzki category:cs.AI  published:2017-04-06 summary:An overview of current debates and contemporary research devoted to the modeling of decision making processes and their facilitation directs attention to the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP). At the core of the AHP are various prioritization procedures (PPs) and consistency measures (CMs) for a Pairwise Comparison Matrix (PCM) which, in a sense, reflects preferences of decision makers. Certainly, when judgments about these preferences are perfectly consistent (cardinally transitive), all PPs coincide and the quality of the priority ratios (PRs) estimation is exemplary. However, human judgments are very rarely consistent, thus the quality of PRs estimation may significantly vary. The scale of these variations depends on the applied PP and utilized CM for a PCM. This is why it is important to find out which PPs and which CMs for a PCM lead directly to an improvement of the PRs estimation accuracy. The main goal of this research is realized through the properly designed, coded and executed seminal and sophisticated simulation algorithms in Wolfram Mathematica 8.0. These research results convince that the embedded in the AHP and commonly applied, both genuine PP and CM for PCM may significantly deteriorate the quality of PRs estimation; however, solutions proposed in this paper can significantly improve the methodology. version:2
arxiv-1706-06203 | Lessons Learnt from Field Trials of a Robotic Sweet Pepper Harvester | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06203 | id:1706.06203 author:Christopher Lehnert, Christopher McCool, Tristan Perez category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-19 summary:In this paper, we present the lessons learnt during the development of a new robotic harvester (Harvey) that can autonomously harvest sweet pepper (capsicum) in protected cropping environments. Robotic harvesting offers an attractive potential solution to reducing labour costs while enabling more regular and selective harvesting, optimising crop quality, scheduling and therefore profit. Our approach combines effective vision algorithms with a novel end-effector design to enable successful harvesting of sweet peppers. We demonstrate a simple and effective vision-based algorithm for crop detection, a grasp selection method, and a novel end-effector design for harvesting. To reduce the complexity of motion planning and to minimise occlusions we focus on picking sweet peppers in a protected cropping environment where plants are grown on planar trellis structures. Initial field trials in protected cropping environments, with two cultivars, demonstrate the efficacy of this approach. The results show that the robot harvester can successfully detect, grasp, and detach crop from the plant within a real protected cropping system. The novel contributions of this work have resulted in significant and encouraging improvements in sweet pepper picking success rates compared with the state-of-the-art. Future work will look at detecting sweet pepper peduncles and improving the total harvesting cycle time for each sweet pepper. The methods presented in this paper provide steps towards the goal of fully autonomous and reliable crop picking systems that will revolutionise the horticulture industry by reducing labour costs, maximising the quality of produce, and ultimately improving the sustainability of farming enterprises. version:1
arxiv-1706-06160 | User Intent Classification using Memory Networks: A Comparative Analysis for a Limited Data Scenario | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06160 | id:1706.06160 author:Arjun Bhardwaj, Alexander Rudnicky category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-19 summary:In this report, we provide a comparative analysis of different techniques for user intent classification towards the task of app recommendation. We analyse the performance of different models and architectures for multi-label classification over a dataset with a relative large number of classes and only a handful examples of each class. We focus, in particular, on memory network architectures, and compare how well the different versions perform under the task constraints. Since the classifier is meant to serve as a module in a practical dialog system, it needs to be able to work with limited training data and incorporate new data on the fly. We devise a 1-shot learning task to test the models under the above constraint. We conclude that relatively simple versions of memory networks perform better than other approaches. Although, for tasks with very limited data, simple non-parametric methods perform comparably, without needing the extra training data. version:1
arxiv-1706-06133 | Scalable Co-Optimization of Morphology and Control in Embodied Machines | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06133 | id:1706.06133 author:Nick Cheney, Josh Bongard, Vytas SunSpiral, Hod Lipson category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-19 summary:Evolution sculpts both the body plans and nervous systems of agents together over time. In contrast, in AI and robotics, a robot's body plan is usually designed by hand, and control policies are then optimized for that fixed design. The task of simultaneously co-optimizing the morphology and controller of an embodied robot has remained a challenge -- as evidenced by the little improvement upon early techniques over the decades since their introduction. Embodied cognition posits that behavior arises from a close coupling between body plan and sensorimotor control, which suggests why co-optimizing these two subsystems is so difficult: most evolutionary changes to morphology tend to adversely impact sensorimotor control, leading to an overall decrease in behavioral performance. Here, we further examine this hypothesis and demonstrate a technique for "morphological innovation protection", which reduces selection pressure on recently morphologically-changed individuals, thus enabling evolution some time to "readapt" to the new morphology with subsequent control policy mutations. This treatment tends to yield individuals that are significantly more fit than those that existed before the morphological change and increases evolvability. We also show the potential for this method to avoid local optima and show fitness increases further into optimization, as well as the potential for convergence to similar highly fit morphologies across widely varying initial conditions. While this technique is admittedly only the first of many steps that must be taken to achieve scalable optimization of embodied machines, we hope that theoretical insight into the cause of evolutionary stagnation in current methods will help to enable the automation of robot design and behavioral training. version:1
arxiv-1706-06122 | VAIN: Attentional Multi-agent Predictive Modeling | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06122 | id:1706.06122 author:Yedid Hoshen category:cs.LG cs.AI  published:2017-06-19 summary:Multi-agent predictive modeling is an essential step for understanding physical, social and team-play systems. Recently, Interaction Networks (INs) were proposed for the task of modeling multi-agent physical systems, INs scale with the number of interactions in the system (typically quadratic or higher order in the number of agents). In this paper we introduce VAIN, a novel attentional architecture for multi-agent predictive modeling that scales linearly with the number of agents. We show that VAIN is effective for multi-agent predictive modeling. Our method is evaluated on tasks from challenging multi-agent prediction domains: chess and soccer, and outperforms competing multi-agent approaches. version:1
arxiv-1706-06120 | Multi-Label Annotation Aggregation in Crowdsourcing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06120 | id:1706.06120 author:Xuan Wei, Daniel Dajun Zeng, Junming Yin category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.HC  published:2017-06-19 summary:As a means of human-based computation, crowdsourcing has been widely used to annotate large-scale unlabeled datasets. One of the obvious challenges is how to aggregate these possibly noisy labels provided by a set of heterogeneous annotators. Another challenge stems from the difficulty in evaluating the annotator reliability without even knowing the ground truth, which can be used to build incentive mechanisms in crowdsourcing platforms. When each instance is associated with many possible labels simultaneously, the problem becomes even harder because of its combinatorial nature. In this paper, we present new flexible Bayesian models and efficient inference algorithms for multi-label annotation aggregation by taking both annotator reliability and label dependency into account. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets confirm that the proposed methods outperform other competitive alternatives, and the model can recover the type of the annotators with high accuracy. Besides, we empirically find that the mixture of multiple independent Bernoulli distribution is able to accurately capture label dependency in this unsupervised multi-label annotation aggregation scenario. version:1
arxiv-1701-00981 | Rollback and Forking Detection for Trusted Execution Environments using Lightweight Collective Memory | http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.00981 | id:1701.00981 author:Marcus Brandenburger, Christian Cachin, Matthias Lorenz, Rüdiger Kapitza category:cs.DC  published:2017-01-04 summary:Novel hardware-aided trusted execution environments, as provided by Intel's Software Guard Extensions (SGX), enable to execute applications in a secure context that enforces confidentiality and integrity of the application state even when the host system is misbehaving. While this paves the way towards secure and trustworthy cloud computing, essential system support to protect persistent application state against rollback and forking attacks is missing. In this paper we present LCM - a lightweight protocol to establish a collective memory amongst all clients of a remote application to detect integrity and consistency violations. LCM enables the detection of rollback attacks against the remote application, enforces the consistency notion of fork-linearizability and notifies clients about operation stability. The protocol exploits the trusted execution environment, complements it with simple client-side operations, and maintains only small, constant storage at the clients. This simplifies the solution compared to previous approaches, where the clients had to verify all operations initiated by other clients. We have implemented LCM and demonstrated its advantages with a key-value store application. The evaluation shows that it introduces low network and computation overhead; in particular, a LCM-protected key-value store achieves 0.72x - 0.98x of a SGX-secured key-value store throughput. version:2
arxiv-1706-06060 | Consistent feature attribution for tree ensembles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06060 | id:1706.06060 author:Scott M. Lundberg, Su-In Lee category:cs.AI cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-06-19 summary:It is critical in many applications to understand what features are important for a model, and why individual predictions were made. For tree ensemble methods these questions are usually answered by attributing importance values to input features, either globally or for a single prediction. Here we show that current feature attribution methods are inconsistent, which means changing the model to rely more on a given feature can actually decrease the importance assigned to that feature. To address this problem we develop fast exact solutions for SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanation) values, which were recently shown to be the unique additive feature attribution method based on conditional expectations that is both consistent and locally accurate. We integrate these improvements into the latest version of XGBoost, demonstrate the inconsistencies of current methods, and show how using SHAP values results in significantly improved supervised clustering performance. Feature importance values are a key part of understanding widely used models such as gradient boosting trees and random forests. We believe our work improves on the state-of-the-art in important ways, and so impacts any current user of tree ensemble methods. version:1
arxiv-1706-06051 | Learning to Schedule Deadline- and Operator-Sensitive Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06051 | id:1706.06051 author:Hanan Rosemarin, John P. Dickerson, Sarit Kraus category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-19 summary:The use of semi-autonomous and autonomous robotic assistants to aid in care of the elderly is expected to ease the burden on human caretakers, with small-stage testing already occurring in a variety of countries. Yet, it is likely that these robots will need to request human assistance via teleoperation when domain expertise is needed for a specific task. As deployment of robotic assistants moves to scale, mapping these requests for human aid to the teleoperators themselves will be a difficult online optimization problem. In this paper, we design a system that allocates requests to a limited number of teleoperators, each with different specialities, in an online fashion. We generalize a recent model of online job scheduling with a worst-case competitive-ratio bound to our setting. Next, we design a scalable machine-learning-based teleoperator-aware task scheduling algorithm and show, experimentally, that it performs well when compared to an omniscient optimal scheduling algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1606-09140 | Algebraic foundations for qualitative calculi and networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.09140 | id:1606.09140 author:Robin Hirsch, Marcel Jackson, Tomasz Kowalski category:cs.AI 68T30  published:2016-06-29 summary:A qualitative representation $\phi$ is like an ordinary representation of a relation algebra, but instead of requiring $(a; b)^\phi = a^\phi b^\phi$, as we do for ordinary representations, we only require that $c^\phi\supseteq a^\phi b^\phi \iff c\geq a ; b$, for each $c$ in the algebra. A constraint network is qualitatively satisfiable if its nodes can be mapped to elements of a qualitative representation, preserving the constraints. If a constraint network is satisfiable then it is clearly qualitatively satisfiable, but the converse can fail. However, for a wide range of relation algebras including the point algebra, the Allen Interval Algebra, RCC8 and many others, a network is satisfiable if and only if it is qualitatively satisfiable. Unlike ordinary composition, the weak composition arising from qualitative representations need not be associative, so we can generalise by considering network satisfaction problems over non-associative algebras. We prove that computationally, qualitative representations have many advantages over ordinary representations: whereas many finite relation algebras have only infinite representations, every finite qualitatively representable algebra has a finite qualitative representation; the representability problem for (the atom structures of) finite non-associative algebras is NP-complete; the network satisfaction problem over a finite qualitatively representable algebra is always in NP; the validity of equations over qualitative representations is co-NP-complete. On the other hand we prove that there is no finite axiomatisation of the class of qualitatively representable algebras. version:3
arxiv-1706-06035 | An Algorithm for Network and Data-aware Placement of Multi-Tier Applications in Cloud Data Centers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06035 | id:1706.06035 author:Md Hasanul Ferdaus, Manzur Murshed, Rodrigo N. Calheiros, Rajkumar Buyya category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-19 summary:Today's Cloud applications are dominated by composite applications comprising multiple computing and data components with strong communication correlations among them. Although Cloud providers are deploying large number of computing and storage devices to address the ever increasing demand for computing and storage resources, network resource demands are emerging as one of the key areas of performance bottleneck. This paper addresses network-aware placement of virtual components (computing and data) of multi-tier applications in data centers and formally defines the placement as an optimization problem. The simultaneous placement of Virtual Machines and data blocks aims at reducing the network overhead of the data center network infrastructure. A greedy heuristic is proposed for the on-demand application components placement that localizes network traffic in the data center interconnect. Such optimization helps reducing communication overhead in upper layer network switches that will eventually reduce the overall traffic volume across the data center. This, in turn, will help reducing packet transmission delay, increasing network performance, and minimizing the energy consumption of network components. Experimental results demonstrate performance superiority of the proposed algorithm over other approaches where it outperforms the state-of-the-art network-aware application placement algorithm across all performance metrics by reducing the average network cost up to 67% and network usage at core switches up to 84%, as well as increasing the average number of application deployments up to 18%. version:1
arxiv-1706-05928 | Modified Frank-Wolfe Algorithm for Enhanced Sparsity in Support Vector Machine Classifiers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05928 | id:1706.05928 author:Carlos M. Alaíz, Johan A. K. Suykens category:cs.LG cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-06-19 summary:This work proposes a new algorithm for training a re-weighted L2 Support Vector Machine (SVM), inspired on the re-weighted Lasso algorithm of Cand\`es et al. and on the equivalence between Lasso and SVM shown recently by Jaggi. In particular, the margin required for each training vector is set independently, defining a new weighted SVM model. These weights are selected to be binary, and they are automatically adapted during the training of the model, resulting in a variation of the Frank-Wolfe optimization algorithm with essentially the same computational complexity as the original algorithm. As shown experimentally, this algorithm is computationally cheaper to apply since it requires less iterations to converge, and it produces models with a sparser representation in terms of support vectors and which are more stable with respect to the selection of the regularization hyper-parameter. version:1
arxiv-1706-06418 | Design and optimal springs stiffness estimation of a Modular OmniCrawler in-pipe climbing Robot | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06418 | id:1706.06418 author:Akash Singh, Enna Sachdeva, Abhishek Sarkar, K. Madhava Krishna category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-19 summary:This paper discusses the design of a novel compliant in-pipe climbing modular robot for small diameter pipes. The robot consists of a kinematic chain of 3 OmniCrawler modules with a link connected in between 2 adjacent modules via compliant joints. While the tank-like crawler mechanism provides good traction on low friction surfaces, its circular cross-section makes it holonomic. The holonomic motion assists it to re-align in a direction to avoid obstacles during motion as well as overcome turns with a minimal energy posture. Additionally, the modularity enables it to negotiate T-junction without motion singularity. The compliance is realized using 4 torsion springs incorporated in joints joining 3 modules with 2 links. For a desirable pipe diameter (\text{\O} 75mm), the springs' stiffness values are obtained by formulating a constraint optimization problem which has been simulated in ADAMS MSC and further validated on a real robot prototype. In order to negotiate smooth vertical bends and friction coefficient variations in pipes, the design was later modified by replacing springs with series elastic actuators (SEA) at 2 of the 4 joints. version:1
arxiv-1706-05893 | Signal Machine And Cellular Automaton Time-Optimal Quasi-Solutions Of The Firing Squad/Mob Synchronisation Problem On Connected Graphs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05893 | id:1706.05893 author:Simon Wacker category:cs.FL cs.DC cs.DS  published:2017-06-19 summary:We construct a time-optimal quasi-solution of the firing mob synchronisation problem over finite, connected, and undirected multigraphs whose maximum degrees are uniformly bounded by a constant. It is only a quasi-solution because its number of states depends on the graph or, from another perspective, does not depend on the graph but is countably infinite. To construct this quasi-solution we introduce signal machines over continuum representations of such multigraphs and construct a signal machine whose discretisation is a cellular automaton that quasi-solves the problem. This automaton uses a time-optimal solution of the firing squad synchronisation problem in dimension one with one general at one end to synchronise edges, and freezes and thaws the synchronisation of edges in such a way that all edges synchronise at the same time. version:1
arxiv-1706-05886 | LiDAR point clouds correction acquired from a moving car based on CAN-bus data | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05886 | id:1706.05886 author:Pierre Merriaux, Yohan Dupuis, Rémi Boutteau, Pascal Vasseur, Xavier Savatier category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-19 summary:In this paper, we investigate the impact of different kind of car trajectories on LiDAR scans. In fact, LiDAR scanning speeds are considerably slower than car speeds introducing distortions. We propose a method to overcome this issue as well as new metrics based on CAN bus data. Our results suggest that the vehicle trajectory should be taken into account when building 3D large-scale maps from a LiDAR mounted on a moving vehicle. version:1
arxiv-1706-05850 | User-driven mobile robot storyboarding: Learning image interest and saliency from pairwise image comparisons | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05850 | id:1706.05850 author:Michael Burke category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-06-19 summary:This paper describes a novel storyboarding scheme that uses a model trained on pairwise image comparisons to identify images likely to be of interest to a mobile robot user. Traditional storyboarding schemes typically attempt to summarise robot observations using predefined novelty or image quality objectives, but we propose a user training stage that allows the incorporation of user interest when storyboarding. Our approach dramatically reduces the number of image comparisons required to infer image interest by applying a Gaussian process smoothing algorithm on image features extracted using a pre-trained convolutional neural network. As a particularly valuable by-product, the proposed approach allows the generation of user-specific saliency or attention maps. version:1
arxiv-1706-05826 | Capacity Releasing Diffusion for Speed and Locality | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05826 | id:1706.05826 author:Di Wang, Kimon Fountoulakis, Monika Henzinger, Michael W. Mahoney, Satish Rao category:cs.DS cs.AI cs.IR  published:2017-06-19 summary:Diffusions and related random walk procedures are of central importance in many areas of machine learning, data analysis, and applied mathematics. Because they spread mass agnostically at each step in an iterative manner, they can sometimes spread mass "too aggressively," thereby failing to find the "right" clusters. We introduce a novel Capacity Releasing Diffusion (CRD) Process, which is both faster and stays more local than the classical spectral diffusion process. As an application, we use our CRD Process to develop an improved local algorithm for graph clustering. Our local graph clustering method can find local clusters in a model of clustering where one begins the CRD Process in a cluster whose vertices are connected better internally than externally by an $O(\log^2 n)$ factor, where $n$ is the number of nodes in the cluster. Thus, our CRD Process is the first local graph clustering algorithm that is not subject to the well-known quadratic Cheeger barrier. Our result requires a certain smoothness condition, which we expect to be an artifact of our analysis. Our empirical evaluation demonstrates improved results, in particular for realistic social graphs where there are moderately good---but not very good---clusters. version:1
arxiv-1706-05198 | Structured Best Arm Identification with Fixed Confidence | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05198 | id:1706.05198 author:Ruitong Huang, Mohammad M. Ajallooeian, Csaba Szepesvári, Martin Müller category:cs.LG cs.AI  published:2017-06-16 summary:We study the problem of identifying the best action among a set of possible options when the value of each action is given by a mapping from a number of noisy micro-observables in the so-called fixed confidence setting. Our main motivation is the application to the minimax game search, which has been a major topic of interest in artificial intelligence. In this paper we introduce an abstract setting to clearly describe the essential properties of the problem. While previous work only considered a two-move game tree search problem, our abstract setting can be applied to the general minimax games where the depth can be non-uniform and arbitrary, and transpositions are allowed. We introduce a new algorithm (LUCB-micro) for the abstract setting, and give its lower and upper sample complexity results. Our bounds recover some previous results, which were only available in more limited settings, while they also shed further light on how the structure of minimax problems influence sample complexity. version:2
arxiv-1706-05760 | Families of Distributed Memory Parallel Graph Algorithms from Self-Stabilizing Kernels-An SSSP Case Study | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05760 | id:1706.05760 author:Thejaka Kanewala, Marcin Zalewski, Martina Barnas, Andrew Lumsdaine category:cs.DC D.1.3  published:2017-06-19 summary:Self-stabilizing algorithms are an important because of their robustness and guaranteed convergence. Starting from any arbitrary state, a self-stabilizing algorithm is guaranteed to converge to a legitimate state.Those algorithms are not directly amenable to solving distributed graph processing problems when performance and scalability are important. In this paper, we show the "Abstract Graph Machine" (AGM) model that can be used to convert self-stabilizing algorithms into forms suitable for distributed graph processing. An AGM is a mathematical model of parallel computation on graphs that adds work dependency and ordering to self-stabilizing algorithms. Using the AGM model we show that some of the existing distributed Single Source Shortest Path (SSSP) algorithms are actually specializations of self-stabilizing SSSP. We extend the AGM model to apply more fine-grained orderings at different spatial levels to derive additional scalable variants of SSSP algorithms, essentially enabling the algorithm to be generated for a specific target architecture. Experimental results show that this approach can generate new algorithmic variants that out-perform standard distributed algorithms for SSSP. version:1
arxiv-1204-4141 | Analysis of a Natural Gradient Algorithm on Monotonic Convex-Quadratic-Composite Functions | http://arxiv.org/abs/1204.4141 | id:1204.4141 author:Youhei Akimoto category:cs.AI math.OC  published:2012-04-18 summary:In this paper we investigate the convergence properties of a variant of the Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES). Our study is based on the recent theoretical foundation that the pure rank-mu update CMA-ES performs the natural gradient descent on the parameter space of Gaussian distributions. We derive a novel variant of the natural gradient method where the parameters of the Gaussian distribution are updated along the natural gradient to improve a newly defined function on the parameter space. We study this algorithm on composites of a monotone function with a convex quadratic function. We prove that our algorithm adapts the covariance matrix so that it becomes proportional to the inverse of the Hessian of the original objective function. We also show the speed of covariance matrix adaptation and the speed of convergence of the parameters. We introduce a stochastic algorithm that approximates the natural gradient with finite samples and present some simulated results to evaluate how precisely the stochastic algorithm approximates the deterministic, ideal one under finite samples and to see how similarly our algorithm and the CMA-ES perform. version:2
arxiv-1706-05749 | Dex: Incremental Learning for Complex Environments in Deep Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05749 | id:1706.05749 author:Nick Erickson, Qi Zhao category:stat.ML cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-19 summary:This paper introduces Dex, a reinforcement learning environment toolkit specialized for training and evaluation of continual learning methods as well as general reinforcement learning problems. We also present the novel continual learning method of incremental learning, where a challenging environment is solved using optimal weight initialization learned from first solving a similar easier environment. We show that incremental learning can produce vastly superior results than standard methods by providing a strong baseline method across ten Dex environments. We finally develop a saliency method for qualitative analysis of reinforcement learning, which shows the impact incremental learning has on network attention. version:1
arxiv-1706-05744 | Learning Hierarchical Information Flow with Recurrent Neural Modules | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05744 | id:1706.05744 author:Danijar Hafner, Alex Irpan, James Davidson, Nicolas Heess category:cs.LG cs.AI  published:2017-06-18 summary:We propose a deep learning model inspired by neocortical communication via the thalamus. Our model consists of recurrent neural modules that send features via a routing center, endowing the modules with the flexibility to share features over multiple time steps. We show that our model learns to route information hierarchically, processing input data by a chain of modules. We observe common architectures, such as feed forward neural networks and skip connections, emerging as special cases of our architecture, while novel connectivity patterns are learned for the text8 compression task. We demonstrate that our model outperforms standard recurrent neural networks on three sequential benchmarks. version:1
arxiv-1703-03078 | Combining Model-Based and Model-Free Updates for Trajectory-Centric Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.03078 | id:1703.03078 author:Yevgen Chebotar, Karol Hausman, Marvin Zhang, Gaurav Sukhatme, Stefan Schaal, Sergey Levine category:cs.RO  published:2017-03-08 summary:Reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms for real-world robotic applications need a data-efficient learning process and the ability to handle complex, unknown dynamical systems. These requirements are handled well by model-based and model-free RL approaches, respectively. In this work, we aim to combine the advantages of these two types of methods in a principled manner. By focusing on time-varying linear-Gaussian policies, we enable a model-based algorithm based on the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) that can be integrated into the model-free framework of path integral policy improvement (PI2). We can further combine our method with guided policy search (GPS) to train arbitrary parameterized policies such as deep neural networks. Our simulation and real-world experiments demonstrate that this method can solve challenging manipulation tasks with comparable or better performance than model-free methods while maintaining the sample efficiency of model-based methods. A video presenting our results is available at https://sites.google.com/site/icml17pilqr version:3
arxiv-1706-05733 | Data set operations to hide decision tree rules | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05733 | id:1706.05733 author:Dimitris Kalles, Vassilios S. Verykios, Georgios Feretzakis, Athanasios Papagelis category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-18 summary:This paper focuses on preserving the privacy of sensitive patterns when inducing decision trees. We adopt a record augmentation approach for hiding sensitive classification rules in binary datasets. Such a hiding methodology is preferred over other heuristic solutions like output perturbation or cryptographic techniques - which restrict the usability of the data - since the raw data itself is readily available for public use. We show some key lemmas which are related to the hiding process and we also demonstrate the methodology with an example and an indicative experiment using a prototype hiding tool. version:1
arxiv-1706-05699 | Gradient Diversity Empowers Distributed Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05699 | id:1706.05699 author:Dong Yin, Ashwin Pananjady, Max Lam, Dimitris Papailiopoulos, Kannan Ramchandran, Peter Bartlett category:cs.LG cs.DC  published:2017-06-18 summary:It has been experimentally observed that distributed implementations of mini-batch stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithms exhibit speedup saturation and decaying generalization ability beyond a particular batch-size. In this work, we present an analysis hinting that high similarity between concurrently processed gradients may be a cause of this performance degradation. We introduce the notion of gradient diversity that measures the dissimilarity between concurrent gradient updates, and show its key role in the performance of mini-batch SGD. We prove that on problems with high gradient diversity, mini-batch SGD is amenable to better speedups, while maintaining the generalization performance of serial (one sample) SGD. We further establish lower bounds on convergence where mini-batch SGD slows down beyond a particular batch-size, solely due to the lack of gradient diversity. We provide experimental evidence indicating the key role of gradient diversity in distributed learning, and discuss how heuristics like dropout, Langevin dynamics, and quantization can improve it. version:1
arxiv-1705-09391 | Discovering Reliable Approximate Functional Dependencies | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.09391 | id:1705.09391 author:Panagiotis Mandros, Mario Boley, Jilles Vreeken category:cs.DB cs.AI cs.IT math.IT H.2.8; G.3  published:2017-05-25 summary:Given a database and a target attribute of interest, how can we tell whether there exists a functional, or approximately functional dependence of the target on any set of other attributes in the data? How can we reliably, without bias to sample size or dimensionality, measure the strength of such a dependence? And, how can we efficiently discover the optimal or $\alpha$-approximate top-$k$ dependencies? These are exactly the questions we answer in this paper. As we want to be agnostic on the form of the dependence, we adopt an information-theoretic approach, and construct a reliable, bias correcting score that can be efficiently computed. Moreover, we give an effective optimistic estimator of this score, by which for the first time we can mine the approximate functional dependencies from data with guarantees of optimality. Empirical evaluation shows that the derived score achieves a good bias for variance trade-off, can be used within an efficient discovery algorithm, and indeed discovers meaningful dependencies. Most important, it remains reliable in the face of data sparsity. version:2
arxiv-1706-05643 | Entropy, neutro-entropy and anti-entropy for neutrosophic information | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05643 | id:1706.05643 author:Vasile Patrascu category:cs.AI cs.IT math.IT  published:2017-06-18 summary:This approach presents a multi-valued representation of the neutrosophic information. It highlights the link between the bifuzzy information and neutrosophic one. The constructed deca-valued structure shows the neutrosophic information complexity. This deca-valued structure led to construction of two new concepts for the neutrosophic information: neutro-entropy and anti-entropy. These two concepts are added to the two existing: entropy and non-entropy. Thus, we obtained the following triad: entropy, neutro-entropy and anti-entropy. version:1
arxiv-1706-05637 | The impact of Entropy and Solution Density on selected SAT heuristics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05637 | id:1706.05637 author:Dor Cohen, Ofer Strichman category:cs.AI cs.LO  published:2017-06-18 summary:In a recent article [Oh'15], Oh examined the impact of various key heuristics (e.g., deletion strategy, restart policy, decay factor, database reduction) in competitive SAT solvers. His key findings are that their expected success depends on whether the input formula is satisfiable or not. To further investigate these findings, we focused on two properties of satisfiable formulas: the entropy of the formula, which approximates the freedom we have in assigning the variables, and the solution density, which is the number of solutions divided by the search space. We found that both predict better the effect of these heuristics, and that satisfiable formulas with small entropy `behave' similarly to unsatisfiable formulas. version:1
arxiv-1705-00307 | Scheduling Parallel and Distributed Processing for Automotive Data Stream Management System | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.00307 | id:1705.00307 author:Jaeyong Rho, Takuya Azumi, Mayo Nakagawa, Kenya Sato, Nobuhiko Nishio category:cs.DC  published:2017-04-30 summary:In this paper, to analyze end-to-end timing behavior in heterogeneous processor and network environments accurately, we adopt a heterogeneous selection value on communication contention (HSV_CC) algorithm, which can synchronize tasks and messages simultaneously, for stream processing distribution. In order to adapt HSV_CC to automotive data stream management system (DSMSs), one must address three issues: (i) previous task and message schedules might lead to less efficient resource usages; (ii) the conventional method to determine the task scheduling order may not be best suited to deal with stream processing graphs, and; (iii) there is a need to be able to schedule tasks with time-varying computational requirements efficiently. To address (i), we propose the heterogeneous value with load balancing and communication contention (HVLB_CC) (A) algorithm, which considers load balancing in addition to the parameters considered by the HSV_CC algorithm. We propose HVLB_CC (B) to address issue (ii). HVLB_CC (B) can deal with stream processing task graphs and more various directed acyclic graphs to prevent assigning a higher priority to successor tasks. In addition, to address issue (iii), we propose HVLB_CC_IC. To schedule tasks more efficiently with various computation times, HVLB_CC_IC utilizes schedule holes left in processors. These idle time slots can be used for the execution of an optional part to generate more precise data results by applying imprecise computation models. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithms improve minimum schedule length, accuracy, and load balancing significantly compared to the HSV_CC algorithm. In addition, the proposed HVLB_CC (B) algorithm can schedule more varied task graphs without reducing performance, and, using imprecise computation models, HVLB_CC_IC yields higher precision data than HVLB_CC without imprecise computation models. version:2
arxiv-1706-05585 | Accelerating Innovation Through Analogy Mining | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05585 | id:1706.05585 author:Tom Hope, Joel Chan, Aniket Kittur, Dafna Shahaf category:cs.CL cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-06-17 summary:The availability of large idea repositories (e.g., the U.S. patent database) could significantly accelerate innovation and discovery by providing people with inspiration from solutions to analogous problems. However, finding useful analogies in these large, messy, real-world repositories remains a persistent challenge for either human or automated methods. Previous approaches include costly hand-created databases that have high relational structure (e.g., predicate calculus representations) but are very sparse. Simpler machine-learning/information-retrieval similarity metrics can scale to large, natural-language datasets, but struggle to account for structural similarity, which is central to analogy. In this paper we explore the viability and value of learning simpler structural representations, specifically, "problem schemas", which specify the purpose of a product and the mechanisms by which it achieves that purpose. Our approach combines crowdsourcing and recurrent neural networks to extract purpose and mechanism vector representations from product descriptions. We demonstrate that these learned vectors allow us to find analogies with higher precision and recall than traditional information-retrieval methods. In an ideation experiment, analogies retrieved by our models significantly increased people's likelihood of generating creative ideas compared to analogies retrieved by traditional methods. Our results suggest a promising approach to enabling computational analogy at scale is to learn and leverage weaker structural representations. version:1
arxiv-1706-05569 | Calibrationless Radio-Inertial Localization and Tracking Systems using Smart Handheld Devices | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05569 | id:1706.05569 author:Maani Ghaffari Jadidi, Mitesh Patel, Jaime Valls Miro, Gamini Dissanayake, Jacob Biehl, Andreas Girgensohn category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-17 summary:In this paper, we propose a novel solution for the low-cost indoor localization and tracking problem using radio signal strength indicator, Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), and magnetometer sensors available in smart handheld devices such as smartphones. The proposed algorithm does not require any sensor calibration and performs real-time. We develop a novel probabilistic IMU motion model as the proposal distribution of the sequential Monte-Carlo technique to track the device trajectory. Our algorithm can globally localize and track a device with a priori unknown location, given an informative prior map of the Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) beacons. Also, we formulate the problem as an optimization problem that serves as the Back-end of the algorithm mentioned above (Front-end). Thus, by simultaneously solving for the device trajectory and the map of BLE beacons, we recover a continuous and smooth trajectory of the device, precise locations of the BLE beacons, and the time-varying IMU bias. The experimental results achieved using hardware demonstrates $1-2~\mathrm{m}$ accuracy. Moreover, through feeding back the optimized map and recovered IMU bias values to the Front-end, the overall localization error decreases to less than $1 \mathrm{m}$ for about $50\%$ of the time along the trajectory. version:1
arxiv-1612-01010 | DeepBach: a Steerable Model for Bach Chorales Generation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.01010 | id:1612.01010 author:Gaëtan Hadjeres, François Pachet, Frank Nielsen category:cs.AI cs.SD  published:2016-12-03 summary:This paper introduces DeepBach, a graphical model aimed at modeling polyphonic music and specifically hymn-like pieces. We claim that, after being trained on the chorale harmonizations by Johann Sebastian Bach, our model is capable of generating highly convincing chorales in the style of Bach. DeepBach's strength comes from the use of pseudo-Gibbs sampling coupled with an adapted representation of musical data. This is in contrast with many automatic music composition approaches which tend to compose music sequentially. Our model is also steerable in the sense that a user can constrain the generation by imposing positional constraints such as notes, rhythms or cadences in the generated score. We also provide a plugin on top of the MuseScore music editor making the interaction with DeepBach easy to use. version:2
arxiv-1707-03469 | Mobile Robot Localization via Machine Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.03469 | id:1707.03469 author:Alexander Kuleshov, Alexander Bernstein, Evgeny Burnaev category:cs.CV cs.LG cs.RO stat.AP  published:2017-06-17 summary:We consider an appearance-based robot self-localization problem in the machine learning framework. Using recent manifold learning techniques, we propose a new geometrically motivated solution. The solution includes estimation of the robot localization mapping from the appearance manifold to the robot localization space, as well as estimation of the inverse mapping for image modeling. The latter allows solving the robot localization problem as a Kalman filtering problem. version:1
arxiv-1706-05518 | Evaluating the quality of tourist agendas customized to different travel styles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05518 | id:1706.05518 author:Jesús Ibáñez-Ruiz, Laura Sebastiá, Eva Onaindia category:cs.AI 68T20 I.2; I.2.8  published:2017-06-17 summary:Many tourist applications provide a personalized tourist agenda with the list of recommended activities to the user. These applications must undoubtedly deal with the constraints and preferences that define the user interests. Among these preferences, we can find those that define the travel style of the user, such as the rhythm of the trip, the number of visits to include in the tour or the priority to visits of special interest for the user. In this paper, we deal with the task of creating a customized tourist agenda as a planning and scheduling application capable of conveniently scheduling the most appropriate goals (visits) so as to maximize the user satisfaction with the tourist route. This paper makes an analysis of the meaning of the travel style preferences and compares the quality of the solutions obtained by two different solvers, a PDDL-based planner and a Constraint Satisfaction Problem solver. We also define several quality metrics and perform extensive experiments in order to evaluate the results obtained with both solvers. version:1
arxiv-1706-05507 | Variants of RMSProp and Adagrad with Logarithmic Regret Bounds | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05507 | id:1706.05507 author:Mahesh Chandra Mukkamala, Matthias Hein category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CV cs.NE stat.ML  published:2017-06-17 summary:Adaptive gradient methods have become recently very popular, in particular as they have been shown to be useful in the training of deep neural networks. In this paper we have analyzed RMSProp, originally proposed for the training of deep neural networks, in the context of online convex optimization and show $\sqrt{T}$-type regret bounds. Moreover, we propose two variants SC-Adagrad and SC-RMSProp for which we show logarithmic regret bounds for strongly convex functions. Finally, we demonstrate in the experiments that these new variants outperform other adaptive gradient techniques or stochastic gradient descent in the optimization of strongly convex functions as well as in training of deep neural networks. version:1
arxiv-1706-05477 | Bayesian Conditional Generative Adverserial Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05477 | id:1706.05477 author:M. Ehsan Abbasnejad, Qinfeng Shi, Iman Abbasnejad, Anton van den Hengel, Anthony Dick category:cs.LG cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-06-17 summary:Traditional GANs use a deterministic generator function (typically a neural network) to transform a random noise input $z$ to a sample $\mathbf{x}$ that the discriminator seeks to distinguish. We propose a new GAN called Bayesian Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks (BC-GANs) that use a random generator function to transform a deterministic input $y'$ to a sample $\mathbf{x}$. Our BC-GANs extend traditional GANs to a Bayesian framework, and naturally handle unsupervised learning, supervised learning, and semi-supervised learning problems. Experiments show that the proposed BC-GANs outperforms the state-of-the-arts. version:1
arxiv-1701-05973 | Coded Computation over Heterogeneous Clusters | http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05973 | id:1701.05973 author:Amirhossein Reisizadeh, Saurav Prakash, Ramtin Pedarsani, Amir Salman Avestimehr category:cs.DC cs.IT math.IT  published:2017-01-21 summary:In large-scale distributed computing clusters, such as Amazon EC2, there are several types of "system noise" that can result in major degradation of performance: system failures, bottlenecks due to limited communication bandwidth, latency due to straggler nodes, etc. On the other hand, these systems enjoy abundance of redundancy -- a vast number of computing nodes and large storage capacity. There have been recent results that demonstrate the impact of coding for efficient utilization of computation and storage redundancy to alleviate the effect of stragglers and communication bottlenecks in \emph{homogeneous} clusters. In this paper, we focus on general heterogeneous distributed computing clusters consisting of a variety of computing machines with different capabilities. We propose a coding framework for speeding up distributed computing in heterogeneous clusters with straggling servers by trading redundancy for reducing the latency of computation. In particular, we propose Heterogeneous Coded Matrix Multiplication (HCMM) algorithm for performing distributed matrix multiplication over heterogeneous clusters that is provably asymptotically optimal. Moreover, if the number of worker nodes in the cluster is $n$, we show that HCMM is $\Theta(\log n)$ times faster than any uncoded scheme. We further provide numerical results demonstrating significant speedups of up to $49\%$ and $34\%$ for HCMM in comparison to the uncoded and homogeneous coded schemes, respectively. Additionally, we consider the problem of optimal load allocation subject to budget constraints, develop a heuristic algorithm for efficient load allocation, and demonstrate examples where the heuristic algorithm achieves the best allocation. Finally, we propose the use of LDPC codes instead of random linear codes, and describe how fast linear time decoding can be achieved by the use of LDPC codes. version:2
arxiv-1701-09180 | Deep Stochastic Radar Models | http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.09180 | id:1701.09180 author:Tim Allan Wheeler, Martin Holder, Hermann Winner, Mykel Kochenderfer category:cs.RO  published:2017-01-31 summary:Accurate simulation and validation of advanced driver assistance systems requires accurate sensor models. Modeling automotive radar is complicated by effects such as multipath reflections, interference, reflective surfaces, discrete cells, and attenuation. Detailed radar simulations based on physical principles exist but are computationally intractable for realistic automotive scenes. This paper describes a methodology for the construction of stochastic automotive radar models based on deep learning with adversarial loss connected to real-world data. The resulting model exhibits fundamental radar effects while remaining real-time capable. version:2
arxiv-1706-05441 | Improved Convergence Rates for Distributed Resource Allocation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05441 | id:1706.05441 author:Angelia Nedić, Alex Olshevsky, Wei Shi category:math.OC cs.DC cs.MA  published:2017-06-16 summary:In this paper, we develop a class of decentralized algorithms for solving a convex resource allocation problem in a network of $n$ agents, where the agent objectives are decoupled while the resource constraints are coupled. The agents communicate over a connected undirected graph, and they want to collaboratively determine a solution to the overall network problem, while each agent only communicates with its neighbors. We first study the connection between the decentralized resource allocation problem and the decentralized consensus optimization problem. Then, using a class of algorithms for solving consensus optimization problems, we propose a novel class of decentralized schemes for solving resource allocation problems in a distributed manner. Specifically, we first propose an algorithm for solving the resource allocation problem with an $o(1/k)$ convergence rate guarantee when the agents' objective functions are generally convex (could be nondifferentiable) and per agent local convex constraints are allowed; We then propose a gradient-based algorithm for solving the resource allocation problem when per agent local constraints are absent and show that such scheme can achieve geometric rate when the objective functions are strongly convex and have Lipschitz continuous gradients. We have also provided scalability/network dependency analysis. Based on these two algorithms, we have further proposed a gradient projection-based algorithm which can handle smooth objective and simple constraints more efficiently. Numerical experiments demonstrates the viability and performance of all the proposed algorithms. version:1
arxiv-1706-05440 | Characterizing Lifting and Lowering Activities with Insole FSR sensors in Industrial Exoskeletons | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05440 | id:1706.05440 author:Luis A. Mateos category:cs.RO 68T40 I.2.9  published:2017-06-16 summary:This paper presents an insole FSR (Force Sensing Resistor) to dynamically detect weight variations in an exoskeleton system. The proposed methodology is intended for tasks of lifting and lowering heavy weights with an industrial exoskeleton to substantially reduce spinal loads during these manual handling activities. Instead of extensively placing high-dense force sensors by covering the whole plantar area, as most of commercial applications do, we integrate only a few force sensors in specific plantar area, so that the sensory system is not restricted to an individual foot size and shape, and on the other hand has relatively lower material cost. Industrial exoskeletons are intended to assist workers when handling heavy goods. With this in mind, wearers are not able to use their hands to control the exoskeleton since they use them to handle the goods. Therefore, the exoskeleton controller is required to indirectly infer how much and when the wearer requires assistance for lifting or lowering a heavy weight. Our approach of dynamically detect and characterize the increment/decrement of weight, as well as the rising/falling edge, enables the exoskeleton's controller to trigger the request of assistive force to the actuators. version:1
arxiv-1706-05436 | Improving Distributed Gradient Descent Using Reed-Solomon Codes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05436 | id:1706.05436 author:Wael Halbawi, Navid Azizan-Ruhi, Fariborz Salehi, Babak Hassibi category:cs.IT cs.DC math.IT  published:2017-06-16 summary:Today's massively-sized datasets have made it necessary to often perform computations on them in a distributed manner. In principle, a computational task is divided into subtasks which are distributed over a cluster operated by a taskmaster. One issue faced in practice is the delay incurred due to the presence of slow machines, known as \emph{stragglers}. Several schemes, including those based on replication, have been proposed in the literature to mitigate the effects of stragglers and more recently, those inspired by coding theory have begun to gain traction. In this work, we consider a distributed gradient descent setting suitable for a wide class of machine learning problems. We adapt the framework of Tandon et al. (arXiv:1612.03301) and present a deterministic scheme that, for a prescribed per-machine computational effort, recovers the gradient from the least number of machines $f$ theoretically permissible, via an $O(f^2)$ decoding algorithm. We also provide a theoretical delay model which can be used to minimize the expected waiting time per computation by optimally choosing the parameters of the scheme. Finally, we supplement our theoretical findings with numerical results that demonstrate the efficacy of the method and its advantages over competing schemes. version:1
arxiv-1609-02104 | A Consumer-Centric Market for Database Computation in the Cloud | http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.02104 | id:1609.02104 author:Yue Wang, Alexandra Meliou, Gerome Miklau category:cs.DB cs.DC  published:2016-09-07 summary:The availability of public computing resources in the cloud has revolutionized data analysis, but requesting cloud resources often involves complex decisions for consumers. Under the current pricing mechanisms, cloud service providers offer several service options and charge consumers based on the resources they use. Before they can decide which cloud resources to request, consumers have to estimate the completion time and cost of their computational tasks for different service options and possibly for different service providers. This estimation is challenging even for expert cloud users. We propose a new market-based framework for pricing computational tasks in the cloud. Our framework introduces an agent between consumers and cloud providers. The agent takes data and computational tasks from users, estimates time and cost for evaluating the tasks, and returns to consumers contracts that specify the price and completion time. Our framework can be applied directly to existing cloud markets without altering the way cloud providers offer and price services. In addition, it simplifies cloud use for consumers by allowing them to compare contracts, rather than choose resources directly. We present design, analytical, and algorithmic contributions focusing on pricing computation contracts, analyzing their properties, and optimizing them in complex workflows. We conduct an experimental evaluation of our market framework over a real-world cloud service and demonstrate empirically that our market ensures three key properties: competitiveness, fairness, and resilience. Finally, we present a fine-grained pricing mechanism for complex workflows and show that it can increase agent profits by more than an order of magnitude in some cases. version:6
arxiv-1706-05356 | Limits to rover miniaturisation and their implications for solar system exploration | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05356 | id:1706.05356 author:Stephen Edwards category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-16 summary:Semiautonomous rover scaling is examined for exploration throughout the solar system. Communications to a relay orbiter is a major constraint, due to power requirements and decreasing antenna gain at small sizes. Also, analysis time scales adversely for power hungry Raman or surface abrasion, and also for low photon count gamma ray spectroscopy. 1 cm scale rovers with a MER like capability should be possible, and could operate on solar power to 40 AU. At 2 cm, rovers powered by current RTGs are feasible, and are useful in the outer solar system. Such rovers will return images, autonomously navigate from interest point to interest point, and autonomously deploy instruments. Analyses include elemental APX and gamma ray spectroscopy for elemental and Raman and IR spectroscopy for molecular and or mineralogical compositions. They can be built with current technology, the component size is similar to watch movements. Low temperatures are not an obstacle. Very high temperatures, e.g. 390 to 480 C for surface Venus, will require more work on high temperature electronics, but current work suggests that dense ICs for Venusian conditions should be feasible in the near future. Mm size rovers, designed primarily for imaging, are feasible at inner solar system solar flux levels. If deployed in large numbers, manufacturing developments would be needed to allow mechanised assembly of multiple MEMS systems. Miniature, degassing to space, RTGs could provide power in cold vacuum environments, as could advanced betavoltaic systems, though much work would be required to develop the latter. version:1
arxiv-1707-03682 | A Deep Learning Approach for Blind Drift Calibration of Sensor Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.03682 | id:1707.03682 author:Yuzhi Wang, Anqi Yang, Xiaoming Chen, Pengjun Wang, Yu Wang, Huazhong Yang category:cs.LG cs.DC  published:2017-06-16 summary:Temporal drift of sensory data is a severe problem impacting the data quality of wireless sensor networks (WSNs). With the proliferation of large-scale and long-term WSNs, it is becoming more important to calibrate sensors when the ground truth is unavailable. This problem is called "blind calibration". In this paper, we propose a novel deep learning method named projection-recovery network (PRNet) to blindly calibrate sensor measurements online. The PRNet first projects the drifted data to a feature space, and uses a powerful deep convolutional neural network to recover the estimated drift-free measurements. We deploy a 24-sensor testbed and provide comprehensive empirical evidence showing that the proposed method significantly improves the sensing accuracy and drifted sensor detection. Compared with previous methods, PRNet can calibrate 2x of drifted sensors at the recovery rate of 80% under the same level of accuracy requirement. We also provide helpful insights for designing deep neural networks for sensor calibration. We hope our proposed simple and effective approach will serve as a solid baseline in blind drift calibration of sensor networks. version:1
arxiv-1706-05340 | Robotic Ironing with 3D Perception and Force/Torque Feedback in Household Environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05340 | id:1706.05340 author:David Estevez, Juan G. Victores, Raul Fernandez-Fernandez, Carlos Balaguer category:cs.RO cs.CV I.2.9; I.2.10  published:2017-06-16 summary:As robotic systems become more popular in household environments, the complexity of required tasks also increases. In this work we focus on a domestic chore deemed dull by a majority of the population, the task of ironing. The presented algorithm improves on the limited number of previous works by joining 3D perception with force/torque sensing, with emphasis on finding a practical solution with a feasible implementation in a domestic setting. Our algorithm obtains a point cloud representation of the working environment. From this point cloud, the garment is segmented and a custom Wrinkleness Local Descriptor (WiLD) is computed to determine the location of the present wrinkles. Using this descriptor, the most suitable ironing path is computed and, based on it, the manipulation algorithm performs the force-controlled ironing operation. Experiments have been performed with a humanoid robot platform, proving that our algorithm is able to detect successfully wrinkles present in garments and iteratively reduce the wrinkleness using an unmodified iron. version:1
arxiv-1706-05296 | Value-Decomposition Networks For Cooperative Multi-Agent Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05296 | id:1706.05296 author:Peter Sunehag, Guy Lever, Audrunas Gruslys, Wojciech Marian Czarnecki, Vinicius Zambaldi, Max Jaderberg, Marc Lanctot, Nicolas Sonnerat, Joel Z. Leibo, Karl Tuyls, Thore Graepel category:cs.AI I.2.11  published:2017-06-16 summary:We study the problem of cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning with a single joint reward signal. This class of learning problems is difficult because of the often large combined action and observation spaces. In the fully centralized and decentralized approaches, we find the problem of spurious rewards and a phenomenon we call the "lazy agent" problem, which arises due to partial observability. We address these problems by training individual agents with a novel value decomposition network architecture, which learns to decompose the team value function into agent-wise value functions. We perform an experimental evaluation across a range of partially-observable multi-agent domains and show that learning such value-decompositions leads to superior results, in particular when combined with weight sharing, role information and information channels. version:1
arxiv-1706-05272 | Declarative Modeling for Building a Cloud Federation and Cloud Applications | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05272 | id:1706.05272 author:Giuseppe Attardi, Alex Barchiesi, Alberto Colla, Fulvio Galeazzi, Giovanni Marzulli, Mario Reale category:cs.DC C.2.4  published:2017-06-16 summary:The paper illustrates how we built a federated cloud computing platform dedicated to the Italian research community. Building a cloud platform is a daunting task, that requires coordinating the deployment of many services, interrelated and dependent on each other. Provisioning, servicing and maintaining the platform must be automated. For our deployment, we chose a declarative modeling tool, that allows describing the parts that compose the system and their relations of supplier/consumer of specific interfaces. The tool arranges the steps to bring the deployment to convergence by transforming the state of the system until it reaches a configuration that satisfies all constraints. We chose a declarative service modeling approach for orchestrating both the deployment of the platform by the administrators and the deployment of applications by users. The cloud platform has been designed so that it can be managed by this kind of automation, facilitating the deployment of federated regions by anyone wishing to join and to contribute resources to the federation. Federated resources are integrated into a single cloud platform available to any user of the federation. The federation can also seamlessly include public clouds. We describe the architectural choices, how we adapted the OpenStack basic facilities to the needs of a federation of multiple independent organizations, how we control resource allocation according to committed plans and correspondingly how we handle accounting and billing of resource usage. Besides providing traditional IaaS services, the cloud supports self-service deployment of cloud applications. The cloud thus addresses the long tail of science, allowing researchers of any discipline, without expertise in system or cloud administration, to deploy applications readily available for their perusal. version:1
arxiv-1706-05263 | Concurrent Geometric Multicasting | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05263 | id:1706.05263 author:Jordan Adamek, Mikhail Nesterenko, James Robinson, Sébastien Tixeuil category:cs.DC cs.CG cs.DM cs.NI  published:2017-06-16 summary:We present MCFR, a multicasting concurrent face routing algorithm that uses geometric routing to deliver a message from source to multiple targets. We describe the algorithm's operation, prove it correct, estimate its performance bounds and evaluate its performance using simulation. Our estimate shows that MCFR is the first geometric multicast routing algorithm whose message delivery latency is independent of network size and only proportional to the distance between the source and the targets. Our simulation indicates that MCFR has significantly better reliability than existing algorithms. version:1
arxiv-1706-05261 | From Propositional Logic to Plausible Reasoning: A Uniqueness Theorem | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05261 | id:1706.05261 author:Kevin S. Van Horn category:cs.AI cs.LO  published:2017-06-16 summary:We consider the question of extending propositional logic to a logic of plausible reasoning, and posit four requirements that any such extension should satisfy. Each is a requirement that some property of classical propositional logic be preserved in the extended logic; as such, the requirements are simpler and less problematic than those used in Cox's Theorem and its variants. As with Cox's Theorem, our requirements imply that the extended logic must be isomorphic to (finite-set) probability theory. We also obtain specific numerical values for the probabilities, recovering the classical definition of probability as a theorem, with truth assignments that satisfy the premise playing the role of the "possible cases." version:1
arxiv-1706-05209 | Probabilistic Motion Planning under Temporal Tasks and Soft Constraints | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05209 | id:1706.05209 author:Meng Guo, Michael M. Zavlanos category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-16 summary:This paper studies motion planning of a mobile robot under uncertainty. The control objective is to synthesize a finite-memory control policy, such that a high-level task specified as a Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formula is satisfied with a desired high probability. Uncertainty is considered in the {workspace properties}, robot actions, and task outcomes, giving rise to a Markov Decision Process (MDP) that models the proposed system. Different from most existing methods, we consider cost optimization both in the prefix and suffix of the system trajectory. We also analyze the potential trade-off between reducing the mean total cost and maximizing the probability that the task is satisfied. The proposed solution is based on formulating two coupled Linear Programs, for the prefix and suffix, respectively, and combining them into a multi-objective optimization problem, which provides provable guarantees on the probabilistic satisfiability and the total cost optimality. We show that our method outperforms relevant approaches that employ Round-Robin policies to generate the system trajectories in the suffix. Furthermore, we propose a new control synthesis algorithm to minimize the frequency of reaching a bad state when the probability of satisfying the tasks is zero, in which case most existing methods return no solution. We also propose for this case a new method that allows the system to recover from the bad states and continue executing its tasks.We validate the above schemes via both numerical simulations and experimental studies. version:1
arxiv-1706-05193 | Parameterized Verification of Algorithms for Oblivious Robots on a Ring | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05193 | id:1706.05193 author:Arnaud Sangnier, Nathalie Sznajder, Maria Potop-Butucaru, Sébastien Tixeuil category:cs.DC cs.CC cs.DS cs.LO cs.RO  published:2017-06-16 summary:We study verification problems for autonomous swarms of mobile robots that self-organize and cooperate to solve global objectives. In particular, we focus in this paper on the model proposed by Suzuki and Yamashita of anonymous robots evolving in a discrete space with a finite number of locations (here, a ring). A large number of algorithms have been proposed working for rings whose size is not a priori fixed and can be hence considered as a parameter. Handmade correctness proofs of these algorithms have been shown to be error-prone, and recent attention had been given to the application of formal methods to automatically prove those. Our work is the first to study the verification problem of such algorithms in the parameter-ized case. We show that safety and reachability problems are undecidable for robots evolving asynchronously. On the positive side, we show that safety properties are decidable in the synchronous case, as well as in the asynchronous case for a particular class of algorithms. Several properties on the protocol can be decided as well. Decision procedures rely on an encoding in Presburger arithmetics formulae that can be verified by an SMT-solver. Feasibility of our approach is demonstrated by the encoding of several case studies. version:1
arxiv-1706-05171 | Improving Scalability of Inductive Logic Programming via Pruning and Best-Effort Optimisation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05171 | id:1706.05171 author:Mishal Kazmi, Peter Schüller, Yücel Saygın category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-16 summary:Inductive Logic Programming (ILP) combines rule-based and statistical artificial intelligence methods, by learning a hypothesis comprising a set of rules given background knowledge and constraints for the search space. We focus on extending the XHAIL algorithm for ILP which is based on Answer Set Programming and we evaluate our extensions using the Natural Language Processing application of sentence chunking. With respect to processing natural language, ILP can cater for the constant change in how we use language on a daily basis. At the same time, ILP does not require huge amounts of training examples such as other statistical methods and produces interpretable results, that means a set of rules, which can be analysed and tweaked if necessary. As contributions we extend XHAIL with (i) a pruning mechanism within the hypothesis generalisation algorithm which enables learning from larger datasets, (ii) a better usage of modern solver technology using recently developed optimisation methods, and (iii) a time budget that permits the usage of suboptimal results. We evaluate these improvements on the task of sentence chunking using three datasets from a recent SemEval competition. Results show that our improvements allow for learning on bigger datasets with results that are of similar quality to state-of-the-art systems on the same task. Moreover, we compare the hypotheses obtained on datasets to gain insights on the structure of each dataset. version:1
arxiv-1706-05151 | Distributed-Memory Parallel Algorithms for Counting and Listing Triangles in Big Graphs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05151 | id:1706.05151 author:Shaikh Arifuzzaman, Maleq Khan, Madhav Marathe category:cs.DC G.2.2; D.1.3; H.2.8  published:2017-06-16 summary:Big graphs (networks) arising in numerous application areas pose significant challenges for graph analysts as these graphs grow to billions of nodes and edges and are prohibitively large to fit in the main memory. Finding the number of triangles in a graph is an important problem in the mining and analysis of graphs. In this paper, we present two efficient MPI-based distributed memory parallel algorithms for counting triangles in big graphs. The first algorithm employs overlapping partitioning and efficient load balancing schemes to provide a very fast parallel algorithm. The algorithm scales well to networks with billions of nodes and can compute the exact number of triangles in a network with 10 billion edges in 16 minutes. The second algorithm divides the network into non-overlapping partitions leading to a space-efficient algorithm. Our results on both artificial and real-world networks demonstrate a significant space saving with this algorithm. We also present a novel approach that reduces communication cost drastically leading the algorithm to both a space- and runtime-efficient algorithm. Further, we demonstrate how our algorithms can be used to list all triangles in a graph and compute clustering coefficients of nodes. Our algorithm can also be adapted to a parallel approximation algorithm using an edge sparsification method. version:1
arxiv-1706-05143 | AI-Powered Social Bots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05143 | id:1706.05143 author:Terrence Adams category:cs.SI cs.AI cs.CY cs.MM  published:2017-06-16 summary:This paper gives an overview of impersonation bots that generate output in one, or possibly, multiple modalities. We also discuss rapidly advancing areas of machine learning and artificial intelligence that could lead to frighteningly powerful new multi-modal social bots. Our main conclusion is that most commonly known bots are one dimensional (i.e., chatterbot), and far from deceiving serious interrogators. However, using recent advances in machine learning, it is possible to unleash incredibly powerful, human-like armies of social bots, in potentially well coordinated campaigns of deception and influence. version:1
arxiv-1704-07145 | Visual-Inertial Navigation with Feature Confidence Analysis | http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.07145 | id:1704.07145 author:Chang-Ryeol Lee, Kuk-Jin Yoon category:cs.RO  published:2017-04-24 summary:Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) utilizes an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) to overcome the limitations of Visual Odometry (VO). However, the VIO for vehicles in large-scale outdoor environments still has some difficulties in estimating forward motion with distant features. To solve these difficulties, we propose a robust VIO method based on the analysis of feature confidence in forward motion estimation using an IMU. We first formulate the VIO problem by using effective trifocal tensor geometry. Then, we infer the feature confidence by using the motion information obtained from an IMU and incorporate the confidence into the Bayesian estimation framework. Experimental results on the public KITTI dataset show that the proposed VIO outperforms the baseline VIO, and it also demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed feature confidence analysis and confidence-incorporated egomotion estimation framework. version:2
arxiv-1608-05288 | Accelerating Exact and Approximate Inference for (Distributed) Discrete Optimization with GPUs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.05288 | id:1608.05288 author:Ferdinando Fioretto, Enrico Pontelli, William Yeoh, Rina Dechter category:cs.AI cs.DC  published:2016-08-18 summary:Discrete optimization is a central problem in artificial intelligence. The optimization of the aggregated cost of a network of cost functions arises in a variety of problems including (W)CSP, DCOP, as well as optimization in stochastic variants such as the tasks of finding the most probable explanation (MPE) in belief networks. Inference-based algorithms are powerful techniques for solving discrete optimization problems, which can be used independently or in combination with other techniques. However, their applicability is often limited by their compute intensive nature and their space requirements. This paper proposes the design and implementation of a novel inference-based technique, which exploits modern massively parallel architectures, such as those found in Graphical Processing Units (GPUs), to speed up the resolution of exact and approximated inference-based algorithms for discrete optimization. The paper studies the proposed algorithm in both centralized and distributed optimization contexts. The paper demonstrates that the use of GPUs provides significant advantages in terms of runtime and scalability, achieving up to two orders of magnitude in speedups and showing a considerable reduction in execution time (up to 345 times faster) with respect to a sequential version. version:2
arxiv-1611-08219 | The Off-Switch Game | http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.08219 | id:1611.08219 author:Dylan Hadfield-Menell, Anca Dragan, Pieter Abbeel, Stuart Russell category:cs.AI  published:2016-11-24 summary:It is clear that one of the primary tools we can use to mitigate the potential risk from a misbehaving AI system is the ability to turn the system off. As the capabilities of AI systems improve, it is important to ensure that such systems do not adopt subgoals that prevent a human from switching them off. This is a challenge because many formulations of rational agents create strong incentives for self-preservation. This is not caused by a built-in instinct, but because a rational agent will maximize expected utility and cannot achieve whatever objective it has been given if it is dead. Our goal is to study the incentives an agent has to allow itself to be switched off. We analyze a simple game between a human H and a robot R, where H can press R's off switch but R can disable the off switch. A traditional agent takes its reward function for granted: we show that such agents have an incentive to disable the off switch, except in the special case where H is perfectly rational. Our key insight is that for R to want to preserve its off switch, it needs to be uncertain about the utility associated with the outcome, and to treat H's actions as important observations about that utility. (R also has no incentive to switch itself off in this setting.) We conclude that giving machines an appropriate level of uncertainty about their objectives leads to safer designs, and we argue that this setting is a useful generalization of the classical AI paradigm of rational agents. version:3
arxiv-1706-05125 | Deal or No Deal? End-to-End Learning for Negotiation Dialogues | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05125 | id:1706.05125 author:Mike Lewis, Denis Yarats, Yann N. Dauphin, Devi Parikh, Dhruv Batra category:cs.AI cs.CL  published:2017-06-16 summary:Much of human dialogue occurs in semi-cooperative settings, where agents with different goals attempt to agree on common decisions. Negotiations require complex communication and reasoning skills, but success is easy to measure, making this an interesting task for AI. We gather a large dataset of human-human negotiations on a multi-issue bargaining task, where agents who cannot observe each other's reward functions must reach an agreement (or a deal) via natural language dialogue. For the first time, we show it is possible to train end-to-end models for negotiation, which must learn both linguistic and reasoning skills with no annotated dialogue states. We also introduce dialogue rollouts, in which the model plans ahead by simulating possible complete continuations of the conversation, and find that this technique dramatically improves performance. Our code and dataset are publicly available (https://github.com/facebookresearch/end-to-end-negotiator). version:1
arxiv-1706-05122 | Bib2vec: An Embedding-based Search System for Bibliographic Information | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05122 | id:1706.05122 author:Takuma Yoneda, Koki Mori, Makoto Miwa, Yutaka Sasaki category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.IR  published:2017-06-16 summary:We propose a novel embedding model that represents relationships among several elements in bibliographic information with high representation ability and flexibility. Based on this model, we present a novel search system that shows the relationships among the elements in the ACL Anthology Reference Corpus. The evaluation results show that our model can achieve a high prediction ability and produce reasonable search results. version:1
arxiv-1706-06975 | On the enumeration of sentences by compactness | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.06975 | id:1706.06975 author:Mark A. Stalzer category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-15 summary:Presented is a Julia meta-program that discovers compact theories from data if they exist. It writes candidate theories in Julia and then validates: tossing the bad theories and keeping the good theories. Compactness is measured by a metric: such as the number of space-time derivatives. The underlying algorithm is applicable to a wide variety of combinatorics problems and compactness serves to cut down the search space. version:1
arxiv-1706-05098 | An Overview of Multi-Task Learning in Deep Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05098 | id:1706.05098 author:Sebastian Ruder category:cs.LG cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-06-15 summary:Multi-task learning (MTL) has led to successes in many applications of machine learning, from natural language processing and speech recognition to computer vision and drug discovery. This article aims to give a general overview of MTL, particularly in deep neural networks. It introduces the two most common methods for MTL in Deep Learning, gives an overview of the literature, and discusses recent advances. In particular, it seeks to help ML practitioners apply MTL by shedding light on how MTL works and providing guidelines for choosing appropriate auxiliary tasks. version:1
arxiv-1706-04486 | Learning and Evaluating Musical Features with Deep Autoencoders | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04486 | id:1706.04486 author:Mason Bretan, Sageev Oore, Doug Eck, Larry Heck category:cs.SD cs.AI  published:2017-06-14 summary:In this work we describe and evaluate methods to learn musical embeddings. Each embedding is a vector that represents four contiguous beats of music and is derived from a symbolic representation. We consider autoencoding-based methods including denoising autoencoders, and context reconstruction, and evaluate the resulting embeddings on a forward prediction and a classification task. version:2
arxiv-1706-05064 | Zero-Shot Task Generalization with Multi-Task Deep Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05064 | id:1706.05064 author:Junhyuk Oh, Satinder Singh, Honglak Lee, Pushmeet Kohli category:cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-15 summary:As a step towards developing zero-shot task generalization capabilities in reinforcement learning (RL), we introduce a new RL problem where the agent should learn to execute sequences of instructions after learning useful skills that solve subtasks. In this problem, we consider two types of generalizations: to previously unseen instructions and to longer sequences of instructions. For generalization over unseen instructions, we propose a new objective which encourages learning correspondences between similar subtasks by making analogies. For generalization over sequential instructions, we present a hierarchical architecture where a meta controller learns to use the acquired skills for executing the instructions. To deal with delayed reward, we propose a new neural architecture in the meta controller that learns when to update the subtask, which makes learning more efficient. Experimental results on a stochastic 3D domain show that the proposed ideas are crucial for generalization to longer instructions as well as unseen instructions. version:1
arxiv-1706-05059 | Conjunctions of Among Constraints | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05059 | id:1706.05059 author:Victor Dalmau category:cs.AI cs.LO  published:2017-06-15 summary:Many existing global constraints can be encoded as a conjunction of among constraints. An among constraint holds if the number of the variables in its scope whose value belongs to a prespecified set, which we call its range, is within some given bounds. It is known that domain filtering algorithms can benefit from reasoning about the interaction of among constraints so that values can be filtered out taking into consideration several among constraints simultaneously. The present pa- per embarks into a systematic investigation on the circumstances under which it is possible to obtain efficient and complete domain filtering algorithms for conjunctions of among constraints. We start by observing that restrictions on both the scope and the range of the among constraints are necessary to obtain meaningful results. Then, we derive a domain flow-based filtering algorithm and present several applications. In particular, it is shown that the algorithm unifies and generalizes several previous existing results. version:1
arxiv-1705-09349 | Together We Know How to Achieve: An Epistemic Logic of Know-How | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.09349 | id:1705.09349 author:Pavel Naumov, Jia Tao category:cs.AI cs.GT cs.LO cs.MA  published:2017-05-25 summary:The existence of a coalition strategy to achieve a goal does not necessarily mean that the coalition has enough information to know how to follow the strategy. Neither does it mean that the coalition knows that such a strategy exists. The article studies an interplay between the distributed knowledge, coalition strategies, and coalition "know-how" strategies. The main technical result is a sound and complete trimodal logical system that describes the properties of this interplay. version:2
arxiv-1706-05039 | Distributed Transfer Linear Support Vector Machines | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05039 | id:1706.05039 author:Rui Zhang, Quanyan Zhu category:cs.LG cs.DC  published:2017-06-15 summary:Transfer learning has been developed to improve the performances of different but related tasks in machine learning. However, such processes become less efficient with the increase of the size of training data and the number of tasks. Moreover, privacy can be violated as some tasks may contain sensitive and private data, which are communicated between nodes and tasks. We propose a consensus-based distributed transfer learning framework, where several tasks aim to find the best linear support vector machine (SVM) classifiers in a distributed network. With alternating direction method of multipliers, tasks can achieve better classification accuracies more efficiently and privately, as each node and each task train with their own data, and only decision variables are transferred between different tasks and nodes. Numerical experiments on MNIST datasets show that the knowledge transferred from the source tasks can be used to decrease the risks of the target tasks that lack training data or have unbalanced training labels. We show that the risks of the target tasks in the nodes without the data of the source tasks can also be reduced using the information transferred from the nodes who contain the data of the source tasks. We also show that the target tasks can enter and leave in real-time without rerunning the whole algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1706-03184 | Upper Bounds on Number of Steals in Rooted Trees | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03184 | id:1706.03184 author:Charles E. Leiserson, Tao B. Schardl, Warut Suksompong category:cs.DC cs.DM cs.DS  published:2017-06-10 summary:Inspired by applications in parallel computing, we analyze the setting of work stealing in multithreaded computations. We obtain tight upper bounds on the number of steals when the computation can be modeled by rooted trees. In particular, we show that if the computation with $n$ processors starts with one processor having a complete $k$-ary tree of height $h$ (and the remaining $n-1$ processors having nothing), the maximum possible number of steals is $\sum_{i=1}^n(k-1)^i\binom{h}{i}$. version:2
arxiv-1706-03610 | Neural Domain Adaptation for Biomedical Question Answering | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03610 | id:1706.03610 author:Georg Wiese, Dirk Weissenborn, Mariana Neves category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.NE  published:2017-06-12 summary:Factoid question answering (QA) has recently benefited from the development of deep learning (DL) systems. Neural network models outperform traditional approaches in domains where large datasets exist, such as SQuAD (ca. 100,000 questions) for Wikipedia articles. However, these systems have not yet been applied to QA in more specific domains, such as biomedicine, because datasets are generally too small to train a DL system from scratch. For example, the BioASQ dataset for biomedical QA comprises less then 900 factoid (single answer) and list (multiple answers) QA instances. In this work, we adapt a neural QA system trained on a large open-domain dataset (SQuAD, source) to a biomedical dataset (BioASQ, target) by employing various transfer learning techniques. Our network architecture is based on a state-of-the-art QA system, extended with biomedical word embeddings and a novel mechanism to answer list questions. In contrast to existing biomedical QA systems, our system does not rely on domain-specific ontologies, parsers or entity taggers, which are expensive to create. Despite this fact, our systems achieve state-of-the-art results on factoid questions and competitive results on list questions. version:2
arxiv-1706-05267 | Set-Constrained Delivery Broadcast: Definition, Abstraction Power, and Computability Limits | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05267 | id:1706.05267 author:Damien Imbs, Achour Mostefaoui, Matthieu Perrin, Michel Raynal category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-15 summary:This paper introduces a new communication abstraction, called Set-Constrained Delivery Broadcast (SCD-broadcast), whose aim is to provide its users with an appropriate abstraction level when they have to implement objects or distributed tasks in an asynchronous message-passing system prone to process crash failures. This abstraction allows each process to broadcast messages and deliver a sequence of sets of messages in such a way that, if a process delivers a set of messages including a message m and later delivers a set of messages including a message m ' , no process delivers first a set of messages including m ' and later a set of message including m. After having presented an algorithm implementing SCD-broadcast, the paper investigates its programming power and its computability limits. On the "power" side it presents SCD-broadcast-based algorithms, which are both simple and efficient, building objects (such as snapshot and conflict-free replicated data), and distributed tasks. On the "computability limits" side it shows that SCD-broadcast and read/write registers are computationally equivalent. version:1
arxiv-1706-04825 | Towards Grounding Conceptual Spaces in Neural Representations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04825 | id:1706.04825 author:Lucas Bechberger, Kai-Uwe Kühnberger category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-15 summary:The highly influential framework of conceptual spaces provides a geometric way of representing knowledge. It aims at bridging the gap between symbolic and subsymbolic processing. Instances are represented by points in a high-dimensional space and concepts are represented by convex regions in this space. In this paper, we present our approach towards grounding the dimensions of a conceptual space in latent spaces learned by an InfoGAN from unlabeled data. version:1
arxiv-1704-01006 | Ontology based Scene Creation for the Development of Automated Vehicles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.01006 | id:1704.01006 author:Gerrit Bagschik, Till Menzel, Markus Maurer category:cs.AI cs.RO  published:2017-03-29 summary:The introduction of automated vehicles without permanent human supervision demands a functional system description including functional system boundaries and a comprehensive safety analysis. These inputs to the technical development can be identified and analyzed by a scenario-based approach. Experts are doing well to identify scenarios that are difficult to handle or unlikely to happen. To establish an economical test and release process, a large number of scenarios must be identified to enable an execution of test-cases in simulation environments. Expert knowledge modeled for computer aided processing may help for the purpose of providing a wide range of scenarios. This contribution reviews the use of ontologies as knowledge-based systems in the field of automated vehicles, and proposes a modeling concept for traffic scenes. Afterwards, a process to create scenes from the gathered knowledge is introduced and the utilization of ontologies in the given problem statement is evaluated using criteria from literature. version:2
arxiv-1706-04746 | Improved Distributed Degree Splitting and Edge Coloring | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04746 | id:1706.04746 author:Mohsen Ghaffari, Juho Hirvonen, Fabian Kuhn, Yannic Maus, Jukka Suomela, Jara Uitto category:cs.DC cs.DS  published:2017-06-15 summary:The degree splitting problem requires coloring the edges of a graph red or blue such that each node has almost the same number of edges in each color, up to a small additive discrepancy. The directed variant of the problem requires orienting the edges such that each node has almost the same number of incoming and outgoing edges, again up to a small additive discrepancy. We present deterministic distributed algorithms for both variants, which improve on their counterparts presented by Ghaffari and Su [SODA'17]: our algorithms are significantly simpler and faster, and have a much smaller discrepancy. This also leads to a faster and simpler deterministic algorithm for $(2+o(1))\Delta$-edge-coloring, improving on that of Ghaffari and Su. version:1
arxiv-1612-08239 | Neutron induced strike: On the likelihood of multiple bit-flips in logic circuits | http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08239 | id:1612.08239 author:Nanditha P. Rao, Madhav P. Desai category:cs.AR  published:2016-12-25 summary:High energy particles from cosmic rays or packaging materials can generate a glitch or a current transient (single event transient or SET) in a logic circuit. This SET can eventually get captured in a register resulting in a flip of the register content, which is known as soft error or single-event upset (SEU). A soft error is typically modeled as a probabilistic single bit-flip model. In developing such abstract fault models, an important issue to consider is the likelihood of multiple bit errors caused by particle strikes. The fact that an SET causes multiple flips is noted in the literature. We perform a characterization study of the impact of an SET on a logic circuit to quantify the extent to which an SET can cause multiple bit flips. We use post-layout circuit simulations and Monte Carlo sampling scheme to get accurate bit-flip statistics. We perform our simulations on ISCAS'85, ISCAS'89 and ITC'99 benchmarks in 180nm and 65nm technologies. We find that a substantial fraction of SEU outcomes had multiple register flips. We futher analyse the individual contributions of the strike on a register and the strike on a logic gate, to multiple flips. We find that, amongst the erroneous outcomes, the probability of multiple bit-flips for 'gate-strike' cases was substantial and went up to 50%, where as those for 'register-strike' cases was just about 2%. This implies that, in principle, we can eliminate the flips due to register strikes using hardened flip-flop designs. However, in such designs, out of the remaining flips which will be due to gate strikes, a large fraction is likely to be multiple flips. version:2
arxiv-1706-04722 | The design of a streaming analytical workflow for processing massive transit feeds | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04722 | id:1706.04722 author:Hung Cao, Monica Wachowicz category:cs.CY cs.DC cs.DS  published:2017-06-15 summary:Retrieving and analyzing transit feeds relies on working with analytical workflows that can handle the massive volume of data streams that are relevant to understand the dynamics of transit networks which are entirely deterministic in the geographical space in which they takes place. In this paper, we consider the fundamental issues in developing a streaming analytical workflow for analyzing the continuous arrival of multiple, unbounded transit data feeds for automatically processing and enriching them with additional information containing higher level concepts accordingly to a particular mobility context. This workflow consists of three tasks: (1) stream data retrieval for creating time windows; (2) data cleaning for handling missing data, overlap data or redundant data; and (3) data contextualization for computing actual arrival and departure times as well as the stops and moves during a bus trip, and also performing mobility context computation. The workflow was implemented in a Hadoop cloud ecosystem using data streams from the CODIAC Transit System of the city of Moncton, NB. The Map() function of MapReduce is used to retrieve and bundle data streams into numerous clusters which are subsequently handled in a parallel manner by the Reduce() function in order to execute the data contextualization step. The results validate the need for cloud computing for achieving high performance and scalability, however, due to the delay in computing and networking, it is clear that data cleaning tasks should not only be deployed using a cloud environment, paving the way to combine it with fog computing in the near future. version:1
arxiv-1706-04721 | Target Curricula via Selection of Minimum Feature Sets: a Case Study in Boolean Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04721 | id:1706.04721 author:Shannon Fenn, Pablo Moscato category:cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-15 summary:We consider the effect of introducing a curriculum of targets when training Boolean models on supervised Multi Label Classification (MLC) problems. In particular, we consider how to order targets in the absence of prior knowledge, and how such a curriculum may be enforced when using meta-heuristics to train discrete non-linear models. We show that hierarchical dependencies between targets can be exploited by enforcing an appropriate curriculum using hierarchical loss functions. On several multi output circuit-inference problems with known target difficulties, Feedforward Boolean Networks (FBNs) trained with such a loss function achieve significantly lower out-of-sample error, up to $10\%$ in some cases. This improvement increases as the loss places more emphasis on target order and is strongly correlated with an easy-to-hard curricula. We also demonstrate the same improvements on three real-world models and two Gene Regulatory Network (GRN) inference problems. We posit a simple a-priori method for identifying an appropriate target order and estimating the strength of target relationships in Boolean MLCs. These methods use intrinsic dimension as a proxy for target difficulty, which is estimated using optimal solutions to a combinatorial optimisation problem known as the Minimum-Feature-Set (minFS) problem. We also demonstrate that the same generalisation gains can be achieved without providing any knowledge of target difficulty. version:1
arxiv-1706-04694 | Planning with Verbal Communication for Human-Robot Collaboration | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04694 | id:1706.04694 author:Stefanos Nikolaidis, Minae Kwon, Jodi Forlizzi, Siddhartha Srinivasa category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-14 summary:Human collaborators coordinate effectively their actions through both verbal and non-verbal communication. We believe that the the same should hold for human-robot teams. We propose a formalism that enables a robot to decide optimally between doing a task and issuing an utterance. We focus on two types of utterances: verbal commands, where the robot expresses how it wants its human teammate to behave, and state-conveying actions, where the robot explains why it is behaving this way. Human subject experiments show that enabling the robot to issue verbal commands is the most effective form of communicating objectives, while retaining user trust in the robot. Communicating why information should be done judiciously, since many participants questioned the truthfulness of the robot statements. version:1
arxiv-1706-04996 | Dynamic, modeling and simulation of an underactuated system | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04996 | id:1706.04996 author:Juan Libardo Duarte Madrid, P. A. Ospina-Henao, E González Querubín category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-14 summary:In this paper, is used the Lagrangian classical mechanics for modeling the dynamics of an underactuated system, specifically a rotary inverted pendulum that will have two equations of motion. A basic design of the system is proposed in SOLIDWORKS 3D CAD software, which based on the material and dimensions of the model provides some physical variables necessary for modeling. In order to verify the results obtained, a comparison the CAD model simulated in the environment SimMechanics of MATLAB software with the mathematical model who was consisting of Euler Lagrange's equations implemented in Simulink MATLAB, solved with the ODE23tb method, included in the MATLAB libraries for the solution of systems of equations of the type and order obtained. This article also has a topological analysis of pendulum trajectories through a phase space diagram, which allows the identification of stable and unstable regions of the system. version:1
arxiv-1703-06045 | Approximation Complexity of Maximum A Posteriori Inference in Sum-Product Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06045 | id:1703.06045 author:Diarmaid Conaty, Denis Deratani Mauá, Cassio P. de Campos category:cs.AI 68T37  published:2017-03-17 summary:We discuss the computational complexity of approximating maximum a posteriori inference in sum-product networks. We first show NP-hardness in trees of height two by a reduction from maximum independent set; this implies non-approximability within a sublinear factor. We show that this is a tight bound, as we can find an approximation within a linear factor in networks of height two. We then show that, in trees of height three, it is NP-hard to approximate the problem within a factor $2^{f(n)}$ for any sublinear function $f$ of the size of the input $n$. Again, this bound is tight, as we prove that the usual max-product algorithm finds (in any network) approximations within factor $2^{c \cdot n}$ for some constant $c < 1$. Last, we present a simple algorithm, and show that it provably produces solutions at least as good as, and potentially much better than, the max-product algorithm. We empirically analyze the proposed algorithm against max-product using synthetic and real-world data. version:3
arxiv-1706-04582 | The Opacity of Backbones and Backdoors Under a Weak Assumption | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04582 | id:1706.04582 author:Lane A. Hemaspaandra, David E. Narváez category:cs.AI cs.CC cs.LO F.4.1; F.1.3  published:2017-06-14 summary:Backdoors and backbones of Boolean formulas are hidden structural properties that are relevant to the analysis of the hardness of instances of the SAT problem. The development and analysis of algorithms to find and make use of these properties is thus useful to improve the performance of modern solvers and our general understanding of SAT. In this work we show that, under the assumption that P$\neq$NP, there are easily-recognizable sets of Boolean formulas for which it is hard to determine whether they have a backbone. We also show that, under the same assumption, there are easily-recognizable families of Boolean formulas with strong backdoors that are easy to find, for which it is hard to determine whether they are satisfiable or not. version:1
arxiv-1706-04580 | Context-Aware System Synthesis, Task Assignment, and Routing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04580 | id:1706.04580 author:Jason Ziglar, Ryan Williams, Alfred Wicks category:cs.RO I.2.9; G.2.2; G.2.1  published:2017-06-14 summary:The design and organization of complex computational systems, such as those found in robots, traditionally requires laborious trial-and-error processes to ensure components are correctly connected with necessary resources for computation. This paper presents a novel generalization of the quadratic assignment and routing problem, introducing formalizations for selecting components and interconnections to synthesize a complete system capable of providing some user-defined functionality. By introducing problem context, functional requirements, and modularity directly into the assignment problem, optimal systems can be automatically generated while respecting constraints on bandwidth and computational resources. The ability to generate complete functional systems reduces manual design effort by allowing for a guided exploration of the design space, and increases resiliency by quantifying resource margins and enabling adaptation of system structure in response to changing environments, hardware or software failure. The proposed formulation is cast as an integer linear program which is provably $\mathcal{NP}$-hard. Several case studies explore the capabilities in designing several complex robot systems, highlighting the expressiveness and scale of problems addressable by this approach. Numerical simulations quantify real world performance and demonstrate tractable time complexity for the scale of problems encountered in many modern robotic systems. version:1
arxiv-1706-04560 | Neural Models for Key Phrase Detection and Question Generation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04560 | id:1706.04560 author:Sandeep Subramanian, Tong Wang, Xingdi Yuan, Adam Trischler category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.NE  published:2017-06-14 summary:We propose several neural models arranged in a two-stage framework to tackle question generation from documents. First, we estimate the probability of "interesting" answers in a document using a neural model trained on a question-answering corpus. The predicted key phrases are then used as answers to condition a sequence-to-sequence question generation model. Empirically, our neural key phrase detection models significantly outperform an entity-tagging baseline system. We demonstrate that the question generator formulates good quality natural language questions from extracted key phrases. The resulting questions and answers can be used to assess reading comprehension in educational settings. version:1
arxiv-1706-04552 | Block-space GPU Mapping for Embedded Sierpiński Gasket Fractals | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04552 | id:1706.04552 author:Cristóbal A. Navarro, Benjamín Bustos, Raimundo Vega, Nancy Hitschfeld category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-14 summary:This work studies the problem of GPU thread mapping for a Sierpi\'nski gasket fractal embedded in a discrete Euclidean space of $n \times n$. A block-space map $\lambda: \mathbb{Z}_{\mathbb{E}}^{2} \mapsto \mathbb{Z}_{\mathbb{F}}^{2}$ is proposed, from Euclidean parallel space $\mathbb{E}$ to embedded fractal space $\mathbb{F}$, that maps in $\mathcal{O}(\log_2 \log_2(n))$ time and uses no more than $\mathcal{O}(n^\mathbb{H})$ threads with $\mathbb{H} \approx 1.58...$ being the Hausdorff dimension, making it parallel space efficient. When compared to a bounding-box map, $\lambda(\omega)$ offers a sub-exponential improvement in parallel space and a monotonically increasing speedup once $n > n_0$. Experimental performance tests show that in practice $\lambda(\omega)$ can produce performance improvement at any block-size once $n > n_0 = 2^8$, reaching approximately $10\times$ of speedup for $n=2^{16}$ under optimal block configurations. version:1
arxiv-1704-06078 | Name Independent Fault Tolerant Routing Scheme | http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.06078 | id:1704.06078 author:Alkida Balliu, Dennis Olivetti category:cs.DC  published:2017-04-20 summary:We consider the problem of routing in presence of faults in undirected weighted graphs. More specifically, we focus on the design of compact name-independent fault-tolerant routing schemes, where the designer of the scheme is not allowed to assign names to nodes, i.e., the name of a node is just its identifier. Given a set $F$ of faulty (or forbidden) edges, the goal is to route from a source node $s$ to a target $t$ avoiding the forbidden edges in $F$. Given any name-dependent fault-tolerant routing scheme and any name-independent routing scheme, we show how to use them as a black box to construct a name-independent fault-tolerant routing scheme. In particular, we present a name-independent routing scheme able to handle any set $F$ of forbidden edges in $ F +1$ connected graphs. This has stretch $O(k^2\, F ^3( F +\log^2 n)\log D)$, where $D$ is the diameter of the graph. It uses tables of size $ \widetilde{O}(k\, n^{1/k}(k + deg(v)))$ bits at every node $v$, where $deg(v)$ is the degree of node $v$. In the context of networks that suffer only from occasional failures, we present a name-independent routing scheme that handles only $1$ fault at a time, and another routing scheme that handles at most $2$ faults at a time. The former uses $\widetilde{O}(k^2\, n^{1/k} + k\,deg(v))$ bits of memory per node, with stretch $O(k^3\log D)$. The latter consumes in average $ \widetilde{O}(k^2 \,n^{1/k} + deg(v))$ bits of memory per node, with stretch $O(k^2\log D)$. version:2
arxiv-1706-03968 | Asynchronous Graph Pattern Matching on Multiprocessor Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03968 | id:1706.03968 author:Alexander Krause, Annett Ungethüm, Thomas Kissinger, Dirk Habich, Wolfgang Lehner category:cs.DB cs.DC  published:2017-06-13 summary:Pattern matching on large graphs is the foundation for a variety of application domains. Strict latency requirements and continuously increasing graph sizes demand the usage of highly parallel in-memory graph processing engines that need to consider non-uniform memory access (NUMA) and concurrency issues to scale up on modern multiprocessor systems. To tackle these aspects, graph partitioning becomes increasingly important. Hence, we present a technique to process graph pattern matching on NUMA systems in this paper. As a scalable pattern matching processing infrastructure, we leverage a data-oriented architecture that preserves data locality and minimizes concurrency-related bottlenecks on NUMA systems. We show in detail, how graph pattern matching can be asynchronously processed on a multiprocessor system. version:2
arxiv-1703-01310 | Count-Based Exploration with Neural Density Models | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01310 | id:1703.01310 author:Georg Ostrovski, Marc G. Bellemare, Aaron van den Oord, Remi Munos category:cs.AI  published:2017-03-03 summary:Bellemare et al. (2016) introduced the notion of a pseudo-count, derived from a density model, to generalize count-based exploration to non-tabular reinforcement learning. This pseudo-count was used to generate an exploration bonus for a DQN agent and combined with a mixed Monte Carlo update was sufficient to achieve state of the art on the Atari 2600 game Montezuma's Revenge. We consider two questions left open by their work: First, how important is the quality of the density model for exploration? Second, what role does the Monte Carlo update play in exploration? We answer the first question by demonstrating the use of PixelCNN, an advanced neural density model for images, to supply a pseudo-count. In particular, we examine the intrinsic difficulties in adapting Bellemare et al.'s approach when assumptions about the model are violated. The result is a more practical and general algorithm requiring no special apparatus. We combine PixelCNN pseudo-counts with different agent architectures to dramatically improve the state of the art on several hard Atari games. One surprising finding is that the mixed Monte Carlo update is a powerful facilitator of exploration in the sparsest of settings, including Montezuma's Revenge. version:2
arxiv-1706-04463 | Simultaneous merging multiple grid maps using the robust motion averaging | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04463 | id:1706.04463 author:Zutao Jiang, Jihua Zhu, Yaochen Li, Zhongyu Li, Huimin Lu category:cs.AI cs.RO  published:2017-06-14 summary:Mapping in the GPS-denied environment is an important and challenging task in the field of robotics. In the large environment, mapping can be significantly accelerated by multiple robots exploring different parts of the environment. Accordingly, a key problem is how to integrate these local maps built by different robots into a single global map. In this paper, we propose an approach for simultaneous merging of multiple grid maps by the robust motion averaging. The main idea of this approach is to recover all global motions for map merging from a set of relative motions. Therefore, it firstly adopts the pair-wise map merging method to estimate relative motions for grid map pairs. To obtain as many reliable relative motions as possible, a graph-based sampling scheme is utilized to efficiently remove unreliable relative motions obtained from the pair-wise map merging. Subsequently, the accurate global motions can be recovered from the set of reliable relative motions by the motion averaging. Experimental results carried on real robot data sets demonstrate that proposed approach can achieve simultaneous merging of multiple grid maps with good performances. version:1
arxiv-1706-04404 | Runtime Verification for Business Processes Utilizing the Bitcoin Blockchain | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04404 | id:1706.04404 author:Christoph Prybila, Stefan Schulte, Christoph Hochreiner, Ingo Weber category:cs.SE cs.DC  published:2017-06-14 summary:The usage of process choreographies and decentralized Business Process Management Systems has been named as an alternative to centralized business process orchestration. In choreographies, control over a process instance is shared between independent parties, and no party has full control or knowledge during process runtime. Nevertheless, it is necessary to monitor and verify process instances during runtime for purposes of documentation, accounting, or compensation. To achieve business process runtime verification, this work explores the suitability of the Bitcoin blockchain to create a novel solution for choreographies. The resulting approach is realized in a fully-functional software prototype. This software solution is evaluated in a qualitative comparison. Findings show that our blockchain-based approach enables a seamless execution monitoring and verification of choreographies, while at the same time preserving anonymity and independence of the process participants. Furthermore, the prototype is evaluated in a performance analysis. version:1
arxiv-1706-04399 | Enhanced discrete particle swarm optimization path planning for UAV vision-based surface inspection | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04399 | id:1706.04399 author:Manh Duong Phung, Cong Hoang Quach, Tran Hiep Dinh, Quang Ha category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.CV  published:2017-06-14 summary:In built infrastructure monitoring, an efficient path planning algorithm is essential for robotic inspection of large surfaces using computer vision. In this work, we first formulate the inspection path planning problem as an extended travelling salesman problem (TSP) in which both the coverage and obstacle avoidance were taken into account. An enhanced discrete particle swarm optimization (DPSO) algorithm is then proposed to solve the TSP, with performance improvement by using deterministic initialization, random mutation, and edge exchange. Finally, we take advantage of parallel computing to implement the DPSO in a GPU-based framework so that the computation time can be significantly reduced while keeping the hardware requirement unchanged. To show the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm, experimental results are included for datasets obtained from UAV inspection of an office building and a bridge. version:1
arxiv-1604-08738 | I/O-Efficient Generation of Massive Graphs Following the LFR Benchmark | http://arxiv.org/abs/1604.08738 | id:1604.08738 author:Michael Hamann, Ulrich Meyer, Manuel Penschuck, Hung Tran, Dorothea Wagner category:cs.DS cs.DC cs.SI I.5.3  published:2016-04-29 summary:LFR is a popular benchmark graph generator used to evaluate community detection algorithms. We present EM-LFR, the first external memory algorithm able to generate massive complex networks following the LFR benchmark. Its most expensive component is the generation of random graphs with prescribed degree sequences which can be divided into two steps: the graphs are first materialized deterministically using the Havel-Hakimi algorithm, and then randomized. Our main contributions are EM-HH and EM-ES, two I/O-efficient external memory algorithms for these two steps. We also propose EM-CM/ES, an alternative sampling scheme using the Configuration Model and rewiring steps to obtain a random simple graph. In an experimental evaluation we demonstrate their performance; our implementation is able to handle graphs with more than 37 billion edges on a single machine, is competitive with a massive parallel distributed algorithm, and is faster than a state-of-the-art internal memory implementation even on instances fitting in main memory. EM-LFR's implementation is capable of generating large graph instances orders of magnitude faster than the original implementation. We give evidence that both implementations yield graphs with matching properties by applying clustering algorithms to generated instances. Similarly, we analyse the evolution of graph properties as EM-ES is executed on networks obtained with EM-CM/ES and find that the alternative approach can accelerate the sampling process. version:3
arxiv-1706-04353 | Multi-Lane Perception Using Feature Fusion Based on GraphSLAM | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04353 | id:1706.04353 author:Alexey Abramov, Christopher Bayer, Claudio Heller, Claudia Loy category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-14 summary:An extensive, precise and robust recognition and modeling of the environment is a key factor for next generations of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and development of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, a real-time approach for the perception of multiple lanes on highways is proposed. Lane markings detected by camera systems and observations of other traffic participants provide the input data for the algorithm. The information is accumulated and fused using GraphSLAM and the result constitutes the basis for a multilane clothoid model. To allow incorporation of additional information sources, input data is processed in a generic format. Evaluation of the method is performed by comparing real data, collected with an experimental vehicle on highways, to a ground truth map. The results show that ego and adjacent lanes are robustly detected with high quality up to a distance of 120 m. In comparison to serial lane detection, an increase in the detection range of the ego lane and a continuous perception of neighboring lanes is achieved. The method can potentially be utilized for the longitudinal and lateral control of self-driving vehicles. version:1
arxiv-1706-04345 | Towards Adaptive Resilience in High Performance Computing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04345 | id:1706.04345 author:Siavash Ghiasvand, Florina M. Ciorba category:cs.DC cs.PF C.1.4; C.2.4; C.4  published:2017-06-14 summary:Failure rates in high performance computers rapidly increase due to the growth in system size and complexity. Hence, failures became the norm rather than the exception. Different approaches on high performance computing (HPC) systems have been introduced, to prevent failures (e. g., redundancy) or at least minimize their impacts (e. g., checkpoint and restart). In most cases, when these approaches are employed to increase the resilience of certain parts of a system, energy consumption rapidly increases, or performance significantly degrades. To address this challenge, we propose on-demand resilience as an approach to achieve adaptive resilience in HPC systems. In this work, the HPC system is considered in its entirety and resilience mechanisms such as checkpointing, isolation, and migration, are activated on-demand. Using the proposed approach, the unavoidable increase in total energy consumption and system performance degradation is decreased compared to the typical checkpoint/restart and redundant resilience mechanisms. Our work aims to mitigate a large number of failures occurring at various layers in the system, to prevent their propagation, and to minimize their impact, all of this in an energy-saving manner. In the case of failures that are estimated to occur but cannot be mitigated using the proposed on-demand resilience approach, the system administrators will be notified in view of performing further investigations into the causes of these failures and their impacts. version:1
arxiv-1706-04337 | Anonymization of System Logs for Privacy and Storage Benefits | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04337 | id:1706.04337 author:Siavash Ghiasvand, Florina M. Ciorba category:cs.DC cs.CR  published:2017-06-14 summary:System logs constitute valuable information for analysis and diagnosis of system behavior. The size of parallel computing systems and the number of their components steadily increase. The volume of generated logs by the system is in proportion to this increase. Hence, long-term collection and storage of system logs is challenging. The analysis of system logs requires advanced text processing techniques. For very large volumes of logs, the analysis is highly time-consuming and requires a high level of expertise. For many parallel computing centers, outsourcing the analysis of system logs to third parties is the only affordable option. The existence of sensitive data within system log entries obstructs, however, the transmission of system logs to third parties. Moreover, the analytical tools for processing system logs and the solutions provided by such tools are highly system specific. Achieving a more general solution is only possible through the access and analysis system of logs of multiple computing systems. The privacy concerns impede, however, the sharing of system logs across institutions as well as in the public domain. This work proposes a new method for the anonymization of the information within system logs that employs de-identification and encoding to provide sharable system logs, with the highest possible data quality and of reduced size. The results presented in this work indicate that apart from eliminating the sensitive data within system logs and converting them into shareable data, the proposed anonymization method provides 25% performance improvement in post-processing of the anonymized system logs, and more than 50% reduction in their required storage space. version:1
arxiv-1706-04317 | Schema Networks: Zero-shot Transfer with a Generative Causal Model of Intuitive Physics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04317 | id:1706.04317 author:Ken Kansky, Tom Silver, David A. Mély, Mohamed Eldawy, Miguel Lázaro-Gredilla, Xinghua Lou, Nimrod Dorfman, Szymon Sidor, Scott Phoenix, Dileep George category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-14 summary:The recent adaptation of deep neural network-based methods to reinforcement learning and planning domains has yielded remarkable progress on individual tasks. Nonetheless, progress on task-to-task transfer remains limited. In pursuit of efficient and robust generalization, we introduce the Schema Network, an object-oriented generative physics simulator capable of disentangling multiple causes of events and reasoning backward through causes to achieve goals. The richly structured architecture of the Schema Network can learn the dynamics of an environment directly from data. We compare Schema Networks with Asynchronous Advantage Actor-Critic and Progressive Networks on a suite of Breakout variations, reporting results on training efficiency and zero-shot generalization, consistently demonstrating faster, more robust learning and better transfer. We argue that generalizing from limited data and learning causal relationships are essential abilities on the path toward generally intelligent systems. version:1
arxiv-1706-04262 | Optimization by a quantum reinforcement algorithm | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04262 | id:1706.04262 author:A. Ramezanpour category:cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech cs.AI cs.LG quant-ph  published:2017-06-13 summary:A reinforcement algorithm solves a classical optimization problem by introducing a feedback to the system which slowly changes the energy landscape and converges the algorithm to an optimal solution in the configuration space. Here, we use this strategy to concentrate (localize) preferentially the wave function of a quantum particle, which explores the configuration space of the problem, on an optimal configuration. We examine the method by solving numerically the equations governing the evolution of the system, which are similar to the nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations, for small problem sizes. In particular, we observe that reinforcement increases the minimal energy gap of the system in a quantum annealing algorithm. Our numerical simulations and the latter observation show that such kind of quantum feedbacks might be helpful in solving a computationally hard optimization problem by a quantum reinforcement algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1706-05254 | Collaborative vehicle routing: a survey | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05254 | id:1706.05254 author:Margaretha Gansterer, Richard F. Hartl category:cs.MA cs.AI cs.CY math.OC physics.soc-ph  published:2017-06-13 summary:In horizontal collaborations, carriers form coalitions in order to perform parts of their logistics operations jointly. By exchanging transportation requests among each other, they can operate more efficiently and in a more sustainable way. Collaborative vehicle routing has been extensively discussed in the literature. We identify three major streams of research: (i) centralized collaborative planning, (ii) decentralized planning without auctions, and (ii) auction-based decentralized planning. For each of them we give a structured overview on the state of knowledge and discuss future research directions. version:1
arxiv-1706-04235 | A Hybrid Observer for a Distributed Linear System with a Changing Neighbor Graph | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04235 | id:1706.04235 author:L. Wang, A. S. Morse, D. Fullmer, J. Liu category:cs.SY cs.DC  published:2017-06-13 summary:A hybrid observer is described for estimating the state of an $m>0$ channel, $n$-dimensional, continuous-time, distributed linear system of the form $\dot{x} = Ax,\;y_i = C_ix,\;i\in\{1,2,\ldots, m\}$. The system's state $x$ is simultaneously estimated by $m$ agents assuming each agent $i$ senses $y_i$ and receives appropriately defined data from each of its current neighbors. Neighbor relations are characterized by a time-varying directed graph $\mathbb{N}(t)$ whose vertices correspond to agents and whose arcs depict neighbor relations. Agent $i$ updates its estimate $x_i$ of $x$ at "event times" $t_1,t_2,\ldots $ using a local observer and a local parameter estimator. The local observer is a continuous time linear system whose input is $y_i$ and whose output $w_i$ is an asymptotically correct estimate of $L_ix$ where $L_i$ a matrix with kernel equaling the unobservable space of $(C_i,A)$. The local parameter estimator is a recursive algorithm designed to estimate, prior to each event time $t_j$, a constant parameter $p_j$ which satisfies the linear equations $w_k(t_j-\tau) = L_kp_j+\mu_k(t_j-\tau),\;k\in\{1,2,\ldots,m\}$, where $\tau$ is a small positive constant and $\mu_k$ is the state estimation error of local observer $k$. Agent $i$ accomplishes this by iterating its parameter estimator state $z_i$, $q$ times within the interval $[t_j-\tau, t_j)$, and by making use of the state of each of its neighbors' parameter estimators at each iteration. The updated value of $x_i$ at event time $t_j$ is then $x_i(t_j) = e^{A\tau}z_i(q)$. Subject to the assumptions that (i) the neighbor graph $\mathbb{N}(t)$ is strongly connected for all time, (ii) the system whose state is to be estimated is jointly observable, (iii) $q$ is sufficiently large, it is shown that each estimate $x_i$ converges to $x$ exponentially fast as $t\rightarrow \infty$ at a rate which can be controlled. version:1
arxiv-1706-04216 | Sampling-Based Optimal Control Synthesis for Multi-Robot Systems under Global Temporal Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04216 | id:1706.04216 author:Yiannis Kantaros, Michael M. Zavlanos category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-13 summary:This paper proposes a sampling-based algorithm for optimal multi-robot control synthesis under global Linear Temporal Logic formulas. Existing planning approaches under global temporal goals rely on graph search techniques applied to a product automaton constructed among the robots. In this paper, we propose a new sampling-based algorithm that builds incrementally trees that approximate the state-space and transitions of the synchronous product automaton. By approximating the product automaton by a tree rather than representing it explicitly, we require much fewer resources to store it and motion plans can be found by tracing sequences of parent nodes without the need for sophisticated graph search techniques. This significantly increases scalability of our algorithm compared to existing optimal control synthesis methods. We also show that the proposed algorithm is probabilistically complete and asymptotically optimal. Finally, we present numerical experiments that show that our sampling-based approach can synthesize optimal plans from product automata with billions of states, which is not possible using standard optimal control synthesis algorithms or off-the-shelf model checkers. version:1
arxiv-1706-04215 | Identifying Spatial Relations in Images using Convolutional Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04215 | id:1706.04215 author:Mandar Haldekar, Ashwinkumar Ganesan, Tim Oates category:cs.AI cs.CV cs.NE  published:2017-06-13 summary:Traditional approaches to building a large scale knowledge graph have usually relied on extracting information (entities, their properties, and relations between them) from unstructured text (e.g. Dbpedia). Recent advances in Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) allow us to shift our focus to learning entities and relations from images, as they build robust models that require little or no pre-processing of the images. In this paper, we present an approach to identify and extract spatial relations (e.g., The girl is standing behind the table) from images using CNNs. Our research addresses two specific challenges: providing insight into how spatial relations are learned by the network and which parts of the image are used to predict these relations. We use the pre-trained network VGGNet to extract features from an image and train a Multi-layer Perceptron (MLP) on a set of synthetic images and the sun09 dataset to extract spatial relations. The MLP predicts spatial relations without a bounding box around the objects or the space in the image depicting the relation. To understand how the spatial relations are represented in the network, a heatmap is overlayed on the image to show the regions that are deemed important by the network. Also, we analyze the MLP to show the relationship between the activation of consistent groups of nodes and the prediction of a spatial relation. We show how the loss of these groups affects the networks ability to identify relations. version:1
arxiv-1706-04487 | Latency Optimized Asynchronous Early Output Ripple Carry Adder based on Delay-Insensitive Dual-Rail Data Encoding | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04487 | id:1706.04487 author:P Balasubramanian, K Prasad category:cs.AR  published:2017-06-13 summary:Asynchronous circuits employing delay-insensitive codes for data representation i.e. encoding and following a 4-phase return-to-zero protocol for handshaking are generally robust. Depending upon whether a single delay-insensitive code or multiple delay-insensitive code(s) are used for data encoding, the encoding scheme is called homogeneous or heterogeneous delay-insensitive data encoding. This article proposes a new latency optimized early output asynchronous ripple carry adder (RCA) that utilizes single-bit asynchronous full adders (SAFAs) and dual-bit asynchronous full adders (DAFAs) which incorporate redundant logic and are based on the delay-insensitive dual-rail code i.e. homogeneous data encoding, and follow a 4-phase return-to-zero handshaking. Amongst various RCA, carry lookahead adder (CLA), and carry select adder (CSLA) designs, which are based on homogeneous or heterogeneous delay-insensitive data encodings which correspond to the weak-indication or the early output timing model, the proposed early output asynchronous RCA that incorporates SAFAs and DAFAs with redundant logic is found to result in reduced latency for a dual-operand addition operation. In particular, for a 32-bit asynchronous RCA, utilizing 15 stages of DAFAs and 2 stages of SAFAs leads to reduced latency. The theoretical worst-case latencies of the different asynchronous adders were calculated by taking into account the typical gate delays of a 32/28nm CMOS digital cell library, and a comparison is made with their practical worst-case latencies estimated. The theoretical and practical worst-case latencies show a close correlation.... version:1
arxiv-1706-04178 | The Power of Choice in Priority Scheduling | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04178 | id:1706.04178 author:Dan Alistarh, Justin Kopinsky, Jerry Li, Giorgi Nadiradze category:cs.DS cs.DC  published:2017-06-13 summary:Consider the following random process: we are given $n$ queues, into which elements of increasing labels are inserted uniformly at random. To remove an element, we pick two queues at random, and remove the element of lower label (higher priority) among the two. The cost of a removal is the rank of the label removed, among labels still present in any of the queues, that is, the distance from the optimal choice at each step. Variants of this strategy are prevalent in state-of-the-art concurrent priority queue implementations. Nonetheless, it is not known whether such implementations provide any rank guarantees, even in a sequential model. We answer this question, showing that this strategy provides surprisingly strong guarantees: Although the single-choice process, where we always insert and remove from a single randomly chosen queue, has degrading cost, going to infinity as we increase the number of steps, in the two choice process, the expected rank of a removed element is $O( n )$ while the expected worst-case cost is $O( n \log n )$. These bounds are tight, and hold irrespective of the number of steps for which we run the process. The argument is based on a new technical connection between "heavily loaded" balls-into-bins processes and priority scheduling. Our analytic results inspire a new concurrent priority queue implementation, which improves upon the state of the art in terms of practical performance. version:1
arxiv-1706-04156 | Gradient descent GAN optimization is locally stable | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04156 | id:1706.04156 author:Vaishnavh Nagarajan, J. Zico Kolter category:cs.LG cs.AI math.OC stat.ML  published:2017-06-13 summary:Despite their growing prominence, optimization in generative adversarial networks (GANs) is still a poorly-understood topic. In this paper, we analyze the "gradient descent" form of GAN optimization (i.e., the natural setting where we simultaneously take small gradient steps in both generator and discriminator parameters). We show that even though GAN optimization does not correspond to a convex-concave game, even for simple parameterizations, under proper conditions, equilibrium points of this optimization procedure are still locally asymptotically stable for the traditional GAN formulation. On the other hand, we show that the recently-proposed Wasserstein GAN can have non-convergent limit cycles near equilibrium. Motivated by this stability analysis, we propose an additional regularization term for gradient descent GAN updates, which is able to guarantee local stability for both the WGAN and for the traditional GAN, and also shows practical promise in speeding up convergence and addressing mode collapse. version:1
arxiv-1608-01716 | A Polynomial-Time Deterministic Approach to the Traveling Salesperson Problem | http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.01716 | id:1608.01716 author:Ali Jazayeri, Hiroki Sayama category:cs.DS cs.AI  published:2016-08-04 summary:We propose a new polynomial-time deterministic algorithm that produces an approximated solution for the traveling salesperson problem. The proposed algorithm ranks cities based on their priorities calculated using a power function of means and standard deviations of their distances from other cities and then connects the cities to their neighbors in the order of their priorities. When connecting a city, a neighbor is selected based on their neighbors' priorities calculated as another power function that additionally includes their distance from the focal city to be connected. This repeats until all the cities are connected into a single loop. The time complexity of the proposed algorithm is $O(n^2)$, where $n$ is the number of cities. Numerical evaluation shows that the proposed algorithm produces shorter tours with less time complexity than other conventional tour construction heuristics. version:2
arxiv-1706-04118 | Live Service Migration in Mobile Edge Clouds | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04118 | id:1706.04118 author:Andrew Machen, Shiqiang Wang, Kin K. Leung, Bong Jun Ko, Theodoros Salonidis category:cs.DC cs.NI  published:2017-06-13 summary:Mobile edge clouds (MECs) bring the benefits of the cloud closer to the user, by installing small cloud infrastructures at the network edge. This enables a new breed of real-time applications, such as instantaneous object recognition and safety assistance in intelligent transportation systems, that require very low latency. One key issue that comes with proximity is how to ensure that users always receive good performance as they move across different locations. Migrating services between MECs is seen as the means to achieve this. This article presents a layered framework for migrating active service applications that are encapsulated either in virtual machines (VMs) or containers. This layering approach allows a substantial reduction in service downtime. The framework is easy to implement using readily available technologies, and one of its key advantages is that it supports containers, which is a promising emerging technology that offers tangible benefits over VMs. The migration performance of various real applications is evaluated by experiments under the presented framework. Insights drawn from the experimentation results are discussed. version:1
arxiv-1706-04115 | Zero-Shot Relation Extraction via Reading Comprehension | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04115 | id:1706.04115 author:Omer Levy, Minjoon Seo, Eunsol Choi, Luke Zettlemoyer category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-13 summary:We show that relation extraction can be reduced to answering simple reading comprehension questions, by associating one or more natural-language questions with each relation slot. This reduction has several advantages: we can (1) learn relation-extraction models by extending recent neural reading-comprehension techniques, (2) build very large training sets for those models by combining relation-specific crowd-sourced questions with distant supervision, and even (3) do zero-shot learning by extracting new relation types that are only specified at test-time, for which we have no labeled training examples. Experiments on a Wikipedia slot-filling task demonstrate that the approach can generalize to new questions for known relation types with high accuracy, and that zero-shot generalization to unseen relation types is possible, at lower accuracy levels, setting the bar for future work on this task. version:1
arxiv-1706-04109 | Technical Report: Implementation and Validation of a Smart Health Application | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04109 | id:1706.04109 author:Fran Casino, Constantinos Patsakis, Antoni Martinez-Balleste, Frederic Borras, Edgar Batista category:cs.AI cs.CY  published:2017-06-13 summary:In this article, we explain in detail the internal structures and databases of a smart health application. Moreover, we describe how to generate a statistically sound synthetic dataset using real-world medical data. version:1
arxiv-1706-04052 | Beyond Monte Carlo Tree Search: Playing Go with Deep Alternative Neural Network and Long-Term Evaluation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04052 | id:1706.04052 author:Jinzhuo Wang, Wenmin Wang, Ronggang Wang, Wen Gao category:cs.AI cs.LG cs.NE  published:2017-06-13 summary:Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS) is extremely popular in computer Go which determines each action by enormous simulations in a broad and deep search tree. However, human experts select most actions by pattern analysis and careful evaluation rather than brute search of millions of future nteractions. In this paper, we propose a computer Go system that follows experts way of thinking and playing. Our system consists of two parts. The first part is a novel deep alternative neural network (DANN) used to generate candidates of next move. Compared with existing deep convolutional neural network (DCNN), DANN inserts recurrent layer after each convolutional layer and stacks them in an alternative manner. We show such setting can preserve more contexts of local features and its evolutions which are beneficial for move prediction. The second part is a long-term evaluation (LTE) module used to provide a reliable evaluation of candidates rather than a single probability from move predictor. This is consistent with human experts nature of playing since they can foresee tens of steps to give an accurate estimation of candidates. In our system, for each candidate, LTE calculates a cumulative reward after several future interactions when local variations are settled. Combining criteria from the two parts, our system determines the optimal choice of next move. For more comprehensive experiments, we introduce a new professional Go dataset (PGD), consisting of 253233 professional records. Experiments on GoGoD and PGD datasets show the DANN can substantially improve performance of move prediction over pure DCNN. When combining LTE, our system outperforms most relevant approaches and open engines based on MCTS. version:1
arxiv-1704-06530 | Taming Asynchrony for Attractor Detection in Large Boolean Networks (Technical Report) | http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.06530 | id:1704.06530 author:Andrzej Mizera, Jun Pang, Hongyang Qu, Qixia Yuan category:q-bio.MN cs.DC q-bio.QM  published:2017-04-20 summary:Boolean networks is a well-established formalism for modelling biological systems. A vital challenge for analysing a Boolean network is to identify all the attractors. This becomes more challenging for large asynchronous Boolean networks, due to the asynchronous updating scheme. Existing methods are prohibited due to the well-known state-space explosion problem in large Boolean networks. In this paper, we tackle this challenge by proposing a SCC-based decomposition method. We prove the correctness of our proposed method and demonstrate its efficiency with two real-life biological networks. version:3
arxiv-1706-04034 | Probabilistic RGB-D Odometry based on Points, Lines and Planes Under Depth Uncertainty | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04034 | id:1706.04034 author:Pedro F. Proenca, Yang Gao category:cs.CV cs.RO  published:2017-06-13 summary:This work proposes a robust visual odometry method for structured environments that combines point features with line and plane segments, extracted through an RGB-D camera. Noisy depth maps are processed by a probabilistic depth fusion framework based on Mixtures of Gaussians to denoise and derive the depth uncertainty, which is then propagated throughout the visual odometry pipeline. Probabilistic 3D plane and line fitting solutions are used to model the uncertainties of the feature parameters and pose is estimated by combining the three types of primitives based on their uncertainties. Performance evaluation on RGB-D sequences collected in this work and two public RGB-D datasets: TUM and ICL-NUIM show the benefit of using the proposed depth fusion framework and combining the three feature-types, particularly in scenes with low-textured surfaces, dynamic objects and missing depth measurements. version:1
arxiv-1706-04033 | On Natural Language Generation of Formal Argumentation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04033 | id:1706.04033 author:Federico Cerutti, Alice Toniolo, Timothy J. Norman category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-13 summary:In this paper we provide a first analysis of the research questions that arise when dealing with the problem of communicating pieces of formal argumentation through natural language interfaces. It is a generally held opinion that formal models of argumentation naturally capture human argument, and some preliminary studies have focused on justifying this view. Unfortunately, the results are not only inconclusive, but seem to suggest that explaining formal argumentation to humans is a rather articulated task. Graphical models for expressing argumentation-based reasoning are appealing, but often humans require significant training to use these tools effectively. We claim that natural language interfaces to formal argumentation systems offer a real alternative, and may be the way forward for systems that capture human argument. version:1
arxiv-1706-03996 | Distributed Subgraph Detection | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03996 | id:1706.03996 author:Pierre Fraigniaud, Pedro Montealegre, Dennis Olivetti, Ivan Rapaport, Ioan Todinca category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-13 summary:In the standard CONGEST model for distributed network computing, it is known that "global" tasks such as minimum spanning tree, diameter, and all-pairs shortest paths, consume large bandwidth, for their running-time is $\Omega(\mbox{poly}(n))$ rounds in $n$-node networks with constant diameter. Surprisingly, "local" tasks such as detecting the presence of a 4-cycle as a subgraph also requires $\widetilde{\Omega}(\sqrt{n})$ rounds, even using randomized algorithms, and the best known upper bound for detecting the presence of a 3-cycle is $\widetilde{O}(n^{\frac{2}{3}})$ rounds. The objective of this paper is to better understand the landscape of such subgraph detection tasks. We show that, in contrast to \emph{cycles}, which are hard to detect in the CONGEST model, there exists a deterministic algorithm for detecting the presence of a subgraph isomorphic to $T$ running in a \emph{constant} number of rounds, for every tree $T$. Our algorithm provides a distributed implementation of a combinatorial technique due to Erd\H{o}s et al. for sparsening the set of partial solutions kept by the nodes at each round. Our result has important consequences to \emph{distributed property-testing}, i.e., to randomized algorithms whose aim is to distinguish between graphs satisfying a property, and graphs far from satisfying that property. In particular, we get that, for every graph pattern $H$ composed of an edge and a tree connected in an arbitrary manner, there exists a distributed testing algorithm for $H$-freeness, performing in a constant number of rounds. Although the class of graph patterns $H$ formed by a tree and an edge connected arbitrarily may look artificial, all previous results of the literature concerning testing $H$-freeness for classical patterns such as cycles and cliques can be viewed as direct consequences of our result, while our algorithm enables testing more complex patterns. version:1
arxiv-1706-03993 | Getting deep recommenders fit: Bloom embeddings for sparse binary input/output networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03993 | id:1706.03993 author:Joan Serrà, Alexandros Karatzoglou category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.IR cs.NE  published:2017-06-13 summary:Recommendation algorithms that incorporate techniques from deep learning are becoming increasingly popular. Due to the structure of the data coming from recommendation domains (i.e., one-hot-encoded vectors of item preferences), these algorithms tend to have large input and output dimensionalities that dominate their overall size. This makes them difficult to train, due to the limited memory of graphical processing units, and difficult to deploy on mobile devices with limited hardware. To address these difficulties, we propose Bloom embeddings, a compression technique that can be applied to the input and output of neural network models dealing with sparse high-dimensional binary-coded instances. Bloom embeddings are computationally efficient, and do not seriously compromise the accuracy of the model up to 1/5 compression ratios. In some cases, they even improve over the original accuracy, with relative increases up to 12%. We evaluate Bloom embeddings on 7 data sets and compare it against 4 alternative methods, obtaining favorable results. We also discuss a number of further advantages of Bloom embeddings, such as 'on-the-fly' constant-time operation, zero or marginal space requirements, training time speedups, or the fact that they do not require any change to the core model architecture or training configuration. version:1
arxiv-1706-03992 | Distributed Detection of Cycles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03992 | id:1706.03992 author:Pierre Fraigniaud, Dennis Olivetti category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-13 summary:Distributed property testing in networks has been introduced by Brakerski and Patt-Shamir (2011), with the objective of detecting the presence of large dense sub-networks in a distributed manner. Recently, Censor-Hillel et al. (2016) have shown how to detect 3-cycles in a constant number of rounds by a distributed algorithm. In a follow up work, Fraigniaud et al. (2016) have shown how to detect 4-cycles in a constant number of rounds as well. However, the techniques in these latter works were shown not to generalize to larger cycles $C_k$ with $k\geq 5$. In this paper, we completely settle the problem of cycle detection, by establishing the following result. For every $k\geq 3$, there exists a distributed property testing algorithm for $C_k$-freeness, performing in a constant number of rounds. All these results hold in the classical CONGEST model for distributed network computing. Our algorithm is 1-sided error. Its round-complexity is $O(1/\epsilon)$ where $\epsilon\in(0,1)$ is the property testing parameter measuring the gap between legal and illegal instances. version:1
arxiv-1702-06334 | Synthesizing Imperative Programs from Examples Guided by Static Analysis | http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06334 | id:1702.06334 author:Sunbeom So, Hakjoo Oh category:cs.PL cs.AI  published:2017-02-21 summary:We present a novel algorithm that synthesizes imperative programs for introductory programming courses. Given a set of input-output examples and a partial program, our algorithm generates a complete program that is consistent with every example. Our key idea is to combine enumerative program synthesis and static analysis, which aggressively prunes out a large search space while guaranteeing to find, if any, a correct solution. We have implemented our algorithm in a tool, called SIMPL, and evaluated it on 30 problems used in introductory programming courses. The results show that SIMPL is able to solve the benchmark problems in 6.6 seconds on average. version:2
arxiv-1608-05766 | On Nonconvex Decentralized Gradient Descent | http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.05766 | id:1608.05766 author:Jinshan Zeng, Wotao Yin category:math.OC cs.DC cs.MA  published:2016-08-20 summary:Consensus optimization has received considerable attention in recent years. A number of decentralized algorithms have been proposed for {convex} consensus optimization. However, to the behaviors or consensus \emph{nonconvex} optimization, our understanding is more limited. When we lose convexity, we cannot hope our algorithms always return global solutions though they sometimes still do sometimes. Somewhat surprisingly, the decentralized consensus algorithms, DGD and Prox-DGD, retain most other properties that are known in the convex setting. In particular, when diminishing (or constant) step sizes are used, we can prove convergence to a (or a neighborhood of) consensus stationary solution and have guaranteed rates of convergence. It is worth noting that Prox-DGD can handle nonconvex nonsmooth functions if their proximal operators can be computed. Such functions include SCAD and $\ell_q$ quasi-norms, $q\in[0,1)$. Similarly, Prox-DGD can take the constraint to a nonconvex set with an easy projection. To establish these properties, we have to introduce a completely different line of analysis, as well as modify existing proofs that were used the convex setting. version:3
arxiv-1706-03946 | A Supervised Approach to Extractive Summarisation of Scientific Papers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03946 | id:1706.03946 author:Ed Collins, Isabelle Augenstein, Sebastian Riedel category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.NE stat.AP stat.ML  published:2017-06-13 summary:Automatic summarisation is a popular approach to reduce a document to its main arguments. Recent research in the area has focused on neural approaches to summarisation, which can be very data-hungry. However, few large datasets exist and none for the traditionally popular domain of scientific publications, which opens up challenging research avenues centered on encoding large, complex documents. In this paper, we introduce a new dataset for summarisation of computer science publications by exploiting a large resource of author provided summaries and show straightforward ways of extending it further. We develop models on the dataset making use of both neural sentence encoding and traditionally used summarisation features and show that models which encode sentences as well as their local and global context perform best, significantly outperforming well-established baseline methods. version:1
arxiv-1706-03944 | Recommendations for Marketing Campaigns in Telecommunication Business based on the footprint analysis | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03944 | id:1706.03944 author:J. Sidorova, L. Skold, O. Rosander, L. Lundberg category:cs.AI cs.CY  published:2017-06-13 summary:A major investment made by a telecom operator goes into the infrastructure and its maintenance, while business revenues are proportional to how big and good the customer base is. We present a data-driven analytic strategy based on combinatorial optimization and analysis of historical data. The data cover historical mobility of the users in one region of Sweden during a week. Applying the proposed method to the case study, we have identified the optimal proportion of geo-demographic segments in the customer base, developed a functionality to assess the potential of a planned marketing campaign, and explored the problem of an optimal number and types of the geo-demographic segments to target through marketing campaigns. With the help of fuzzy logic, the conclusions of data analysis are automatically translated into comprehensible recommendations in a natural language. version:1
arxiv-1706-03940 | Fuzzy Recommendations in Marketing Campaigns | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03940 | id:1706.03940 author:S. Podapati, L. Lundberg, L. Skold, O. Rosander, J. Sidorova category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-13 summary:The population in Sweden is growing rapidly due to immigration. In this light, the issue of infrastructure upgrades to provide telecommunication services is of importance. New antennas can be installed at hot spots of user demand, which will require an investment, and/or the clientele expansion can be carried out in a planned manner to promote the exploitation of the infrastructure in the less loaded geographical zones. In this paper, we explore the second alternative. Informally speaking, the term Infrastructure-Stressing describes a user who stays in the zones of high demand, which are prone to produce service failures, if further loaded. We have studied the Infrastructure-Stressing population in the light of their correlation with geo-demographic segments. This is motivated by the fact that specific geo-demographic segments can be targeted via marketing campaigns. Fuzzy logic is applied to create an interface between big data, numeric methods for processing big data and a manager. version:1
arxiv-1706-05297 | The Price of Anarchy in Hypergraph Coloring Games | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05297 | id:1706.05297 author:Rann Smorodinsky, Shakhar Smorodinsky category:math.CO cs.DC cs.DM cs.GT cs.SI  published:2017-06-13 summary:The price of anarchy was introduced to measure the loss incurred by a society of agents who take actions in a decentralized manner instead of through a central authority. Hypergraph coloring has traditionally been studied in the context of a central designer who chooses colors. In this paper we study the price of anarchy when the choice of color is delegated to each of the vertices which are assumed self-interested. version:1
arxiv-1706-03906 | A New Probabilistic Algorithm for Approximate Model Counting | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03906 | id:1706.03906 author:Cunjing Ge, Feifei Ma, Tian Liu, Jian Zhang category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-13 summary:Constrained counting is important in domains ranging from artificial intelligence to software analysis. There are already a few approaches for counting models over various types of constraints. Recently, hashing-based approaches achieve both theoretical guarantees and scalability, but still rely on solution enumeration. In this paper, a new probabilistic polynomial time approximate model counter is proposed, which is also a hashing-based universal framework, but with only satisfiability queries. A variant with a dynamic stopping criterion is also presented. Empirical evaluation over benchmarks on propositional logic formulas and SMT(BV) formulas shows that the approach is promising. version:1
arxiv-1706-03235 | ACCNet: Actor-Coordinator-Critic Net for "Learning-to-Communicate" with Deep Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03235 | id:1706.03235 author:Hangyu Mao, Zhibo Gong, Yan Ni, Xiangyu Liu, Quanbin Wang, Weichen Ke, Chao Ma, Yiping Song, Zhen Xiao category:cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-10 summary:Communication is a critical factor for the big multi-agent world to stay organized and productive. Typically, most previous multi-agent "learning-to-communicate" studies try to predefine the communication protocols or use technologies such as tabular reinforcement learning and evolutionary algorithm, which can not generalize to changing environment or large collection of agents. In this paper, we propose an Actor-Coordinator-Critic Net (ACCNet) framework for solving "learning-to-communicate" problem. The ACCNet naturally combines the powerful actor-critic reinforcement learning technology with deep learning technology. It can efficiently learn the communication protocols even from scratch under partially observable environment. We demonstrate that the ACCNet can achieve better results than several baselines under both continuous and discrete action space environments. We also analyse the learned protocols and discuss some design considerations. version:2
arxiv-1705-11131 | Multirobot Cliff Climbing on Low-Gravity Environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.11131 | id:1705.11131 author:Himangshu Kalita, Jekan Thangavelautham category:cs.RO  published:2017-05-29 summary:Exploration of extreme environments, including caves, canyons and cliffs on low-gravity surfaces such as the Moon, Mars and asteroids can provide insight into the geological history of the solar system, origins of water, life and prospect for future habitation and resource exploitation. Current methods of exploration utilize large rovers that are unsuitable for exploring these extreme environments. In this work, we analyze the feasibility of small, low-cost, reconfigurable multirobot systems to climb steep cliffs and canyon walls. Each robot is a 30-cm sphere covered in microspines for gripping onto rugged surfaces and attaches to several robots using a spring-tether. Even if one robot were to slip and fall, the system would be held up with multiple attachment points much like a professional alpine climber. We analyzed and performed detailed simulations of the design configuration space to identify an optimal system design that trades off climbing performance with risk of falling. Our results identify a system of 4 robots is best suited when enabling single-robot climbs, while a system of 6 robots are suited when two robots climb simultaneously. The results show a pathway towards demonstration of the system on real robots. version:2
arxiv-1706-04189 | Autonomous Reactive Mission Scheduling and Task-Path Planning Architecture for Autonomous Underwater Vehicle | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04189 | id:1706.04189 author:Somaiyeh Mahmoud. Zadeh category:cs.RO cs.AI  published:2017-06-13 summary:An Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) should carry out complex tasks in a limited time interval. Since existing AUVs have limited battery capacity and restricted endurance, they should autonomously manage mission time and the resources to perform effective persistent deployment in longer missions. Task assignment requires making decisions subject to resource constraints, while tasks are assigned with costs and/or values that are budgeted in advance. Tasks are distributed in a particular operation zone and mapped by a waypoint covered network. Thus, design an efficient routing-task priority assign framework considering vehicle's availabilities and properties is essential for increasing mission productivity and on-time mission completion. This depends strongly on the order and priority of the tasks that are located between node-like waypoints in an operation network. On the other hand, autonomous operation of AUVs in an unfamiliar dynamic underwater and performing quick response to sudden environmental changes is a complicated process. Water current instabilities can deflect the vehicle to an undesired direction and perturb AUVs safety. The vehicle's robustness to strong environmental variations is extremely crucial for its safe and optimum operations in an uncertain and dynamic environment. To this end, the AUV needs to have a general overview of the environment in top level to perform an autonomous action selection (task selection) and a lower level local motion planner to operate successfully in dealing with continuously changing situations. This research deals with developing a novel reactive control architecture to provide a higher level of decision autonomy for the AUV operation that enables a single vehicle to accomplish multiple tasks in a single mission in the face of periodic disturbances in a turbulent and highly uncertain environment. version:1
arxiv-1706-03864 | Exploring Computation-Communication Tradeoffs in Camera Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03864 | id:1706.03864 author:Amrita Mazumdar, Thierry Moreau, Sung Kim, Meghan Cowan, Armin Alaghi, Luis Ceze, Mark Oskin, Visvesh Sathe category:cs.AR  published:2017-06-12 summary:Cameras are the defacto sensor. The growing demand for real-time and low-power computer vision, coupled with trends towards high-efficiency heterogeneous systems, has given rise to a wide range of image processing acceleration techniques at the camera node and in the cloud. In this paper, we characterize two novel camera systems that employ acceleration techniques to push the extremes of energy and performance scaling, and explore the computation-communication tradeoffs in their designs. The first case study is a camera system designed to detect and authenticate individual faces, running solely on energy harvested from RFID readers. We design a multi-accelerator SoC design operating in the sub-mW range, and evaluate it with real-world workloads to show performance and energy efficiency improvements over a general purpose microprocessor. The second camera system is a 16-camera rig processing over 32 Gb/s of data to produce real-time 3D-360 degree virtual reality video. We design a multi-FPGA processing pipeline that outperforms CPU and GPU configurations by up to 10$\times$ in the computation time, producing panoramic stereo video directly from the camera rig at 30 frames per second. We find that an early data reduction step, either before complex processing or offloading, is the most critical optimization for in-camera systems. version:1
arxiv-1706-03842 | Approximate Structure Construction Using Large Statistical Swarms | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03842 | id:1706.03842 author:Subhrajit Bhattacharya category:cs.RO stat.AP  published:2017-06-12 summary:In this paper we describe a novel local algorithm for large statistical swarms using "harmonic attractor dynamics", by means of which a swarm can construct harmonics of the environment. This in turn allows the swarm to approximately reconstruct desired structures in the environment. The robots navigate in a discrete environment, completely free of localization, being able to communicate with other robots in its own discrete cell only, and being able to sense or take reliable action within a disk of radius $r$ around itself. We present the mathematics that underlie such dynamics and present initial results demonstrating the proposed algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1611-01571 | Flat ORAM: A Simplified Write-Only Oblivious RAM Construction for Secure Processors | http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01571 | id:1611.01571 author:Syed Kamran Haider, Marten van Dijk category:cs.AR cs.CR  published:2016-11-04 summary:Oblivious RAM (ORAM) is a cryptographic primitive which obfuscates the access patterns to a storage thereby preventing privacy leakage. So far in the current literature, only `fully functional' ORAMs are widely studied which can protect, at a cost of considerable performance penalty, against the strong adversaries who can monitor all read and write operations. However, recent research has shown that information can still be leaked even if only the write access pattern (not reads) is visible to the adversary. For such weaker adversaries, a fully functional ORAM turns out to be an overkill causing unnecessary overheads. Instead, a simple `write-only' ORAM is sufficient, and, more interestingly, is preferred as it can offer far more performance and energy efficiency than a fully functional ORAM. In this work, we present Flat ORAM: an efficient write-only ORAM scheme which outperforms the closest existing write-only ORAM called HIVE. HIVE suffers from performance bottlenecks while managing the memory occupancy information vital for correctness of the protocol. Flat ORAM resolves these bottlenecks by introducing a simple idea of Occupancy Map (OccMap) which efficiently manages the memory occupancy information resulting in far better performance. Our simulation results show that, on average, Flat ORAM only incurs a moderate slowdown of $3\times$ over the insecure DRAM for memory intensive benchmarks among Splash2 and $1.6\times$ for SPEC06. Compared to HIVE, Flat ORAM offers $50\%$ performance gain on average and up to $80\%$ energy savings. version:3
arxiv-1704-08045 | The loss surface of deep and wide neural networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1704.08045 | id:1704.08045 author:Quynh Nguyen, Matthias Hein category:cs.LG cs.AI cs.CV cs.NE stat.ML  published:2017-04-26 summary:While the optimization problem behind deep neural networks is highly non-convex, it is frequently observed in practice that training deep networks seems possible without getting stuck in suboptimal points. It has been argued that this is the case as all local minima are close to being globally optimal. We show that this is (almost) true, in fact almost all local minima are globally optimal, for a fully connected network with squared loss and analytic activation function given that the number of hidden units of one layer of the network is larger than the number of training points and the network structure from this layer on is pyramidal. version:2
arxiv-1706-03721 | Dynamic Networks of Finite State Machines | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03721 | id:1706.03721 author:Yuval Emek, Jara Uitto category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-12 summary:Like distributed systems, biological multicellular processes are subject to dynamic changes and a biological system will not pass the survival-of-the-fittest test unless it exhibits certain features that enable fast recovery from these changes. In particular, a question that is crucial in the context of biological cellular networks, is whether the system can keep the changing components \emph{confined} so that only nodes in their vicinity may be affected by the changes, but nodes sufficiently far away from any changing component remain unaffected. Based on this notion of confinement, we propose a new metric for measuring the dynamic changes recovery performance in distributed network algorithms operating under the \emph{Stone Age} model (Emek \& Wattenhofer, PODC 2013), where the class of dynamic topology changes we consider includes inserting/deleting an edge, deleting a node together with its incident edges, and inserting a new isolated node. Our main technical contribution is a distributed algorithm for maximal independent set (MIS) in synchronous networks subject to these topology changes that performs well in terms of the aforementioned new metric. Specifically, our algorithm guarantees that nodes which do not experience a topology change in their immediate vicinity are not affected and that all surviving nodes (including the affected ones) perform $\mathcal{O}((C + 1) \log^{2} n)$ computationally-meaningful steps, where $C$ is the number of topology changes; in other words, each surviving node performs $\mathcal{O}(\log^{2} n)$ steps when amortized over the number of topology changes. This is accompanied by a simple example demonstrating that the linear dependency on $C$ cannot be avoided. version:1
arxiv-1705-01209 | Lifelong Metric Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.01209 | id:1705.01209 author:Gan Sun, Yang Cong, Ji Liu, Xiaowei Xu category:cs.LG cs.AI I.5.2  published:2017-05-03 summary:The state-of-the-art online learning approaches are only capable of learning the metric for predefined tasks. In this paper, we consider lifelong learning problem to mimic "human learning", i.e., endowing a new capability to the learned metric for a new task from new online samples and incorporating previous experiences and knowledge. Therefore, we propose a new metric learning framework: lifelong metric learning (LML), which only utilizes the data of the new task to train the metric model while preserving the original capabilities. More specifically, the proposed LML maintains a common subspace for all learned metrics, named lifelong dictionary, transfers knowledge from the common subspace to each new metric task with task-specific idiosyncrasy, and redefines the common subspace over time to maximize performance across all metric tasks. For model optimization, we apply online passive aggressive optimization algorithm to solve the proposed LML framework, where the lifelong dictionary and task-specific partition are optimized alternatively and consecutively. Finally, we evaluate our approach by analyzing several multi-task metric learning datasets. Extensive experimental results demonstrate effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed framework. version:2
arxiv-1706-03661 | DAC-h3: A Proactive Robot Cognitive Architecture to Acquire and Express Knowledge About the World and the Self | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03661 | id:1706.03661 author:Clément Moulin-Frier, Tobias Fischer, Maxime Petit, Grégoire Pointeau, Jordi-Ysard Puigbo, Ugo Pattacini, Sock Ching Low, Daniel Camilleri, Phuong Nguyen, Matej Hoffmann, Hyung Jin Chang, Martina Zambelli, Anne-Laure Mealier, Andreas Damianou, Giorgio Metta, Tony J. Prescott, Yiannis Demiris, Peter Ford Dominey, Paul F. M. J. Verschure category:cs.AI cs.RO  published:2017-06-12 summary:This paper introduces a cognitive architecture for a humanoid robot to engage in a proactive, mixed-initiative exploration and manipulation of its environment, where the initiative can originate from both the human and the robot. The framework, based on a biologically-grounded theory of the brain and mind, integrates a reactive interaction engine, a number of state-of-the art perceptual and motor learning algorithms, as well as planning abilities and an autobiographical memory. The architecture as a whole drives the robot behavior to solve the symbol grounding problem, acquire language capabilities, execute goal-oriented behavior, and express a verbal narrative of its own experience in the world. We validate our approach in a human-robot interaction experiment with the iCub humanoid robot, showing that the proposed cognitive architecture can be applied in real time within a realistic scenario. version:1
arxiv-1706-03648 | Robust visual-inertial SLAM:combination of EKF and optimization method | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03648 | id:1706.03648 author:Meixiang Quan, Songhao Piao category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-12 summary:This paper has presented a novel tightly-coupled monocular visual-inertial Simultaneous Localization and Mapping(SLAM) algorithm combining the advantages of both filtering methods and optimization methods. Our approach uses IMU assisted visual EKF SLAM method in the front-end to estimate the pose and velocity at frame rate. In the back-end, the standard approaches such as nonlinear optimization as well as loop closure have been used to obtain accurate trajectory of the sensor and 3D map of the environment. We also propose a novel scale computation approach that can accurately initialize the scale in short time. In addition, the optimized map points have been used to improve the accuracy of the filter. We evaluated the algorithm on a public dataset, when compared to other state-of-the-art monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM approaches, our algorithm achieves unprecedented accuracy and robustness. version:1
arxiv-1610-07388 | Characterization of an inconsistency ranking for pairwise comparison matrices | http://arxiv.org/abs/1610.07388 | id:1610.07388 author:László Csató category:cs.AI 90B50  91B08  published:2016-10-24 summary:Pairwise comparisons between alternatives are a well-known method for measuring preferences of a decision-maker. Since these often do not exhibit consistency, a number of inconsistency indices has been introduced in order to measure the deviation from this ideal case. We axiomatically characterize the inconsistency ranking induced by the Koczkodaj inconsistency index: six independent properties are presented such that they determine a unique linear order on the set of all pairwise comparison matrices. version:3
arxiv-1706-02785 | Optimal parameters for bloom-filtered joins in Spark | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02785 | id:1706.02785 author:Ophir Lojkine category:cs.DC cs.DB  published:2017-06-08 summary:In this paper, we present an algorithm that joins relational database tables efficiently in a distributed environment using Bloom filters of an optimal size. We propose not to use fixed-size bloom filters as in previous research, but to find an optimal size for the bloom filters, by creating a mathematical model of the join algorithm, and then finding the optimal parameters using traditional mathematical optimization. This algorithm with optimal parameters beats both previous approaches using bloom filters and the default SparkSQL engine not only on star-joins, but also on traditional database schema. The experiments were conducted on a standard TPC-H database stored as parquet files on a distributed file system. version:2
arxiv-1706-03576 | Action and perception for spatiotemporal patterns | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03576 | id:1706.03576 author:Martin Biehl, Daniel Polani category:cs.AI 92B20  published:2017-06-12 summary:This is a contribution to the formalization of the concept of agents in multivariate Markov chains. Agents are commonly defined as entities that act, perceive, and are goal-directed. In a multivariate Markov chain (e.g. a cellular automaton) the transition matrix completely determines the dynamics. This seems to contradict the possibility of acting entities within such a system. Here we present definitions of actions and perceptions within multivariate Markov chains based on entity-sets. Entity-sets represent a largely independent choice of a set of spatiotemporal patterns that are considered as all the entities within the Markov chain. For example, the entity-set can be chosen according to operational closure conditions or complete specific integration. Importantly, the perception-action loop also induces an entity-set and is a multivariate Markov chain. We then show that our definition of actions leads to non-heteronomy and that of perceptions specialize to the usual concept of perception in the perception-action loop. version:1
arxiv-1706-03539 | Resilient Work Stealing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03539 | id:1706.03539 author:Pascal Costanza, Charlotte Herzeel, Wolfgang De Meuter, Roel Wuyts category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-12 summary:Future generations of processors will exhibit an increase of faults over their lifetime, and it becomes increasingly expensive to solve the resulting reliability issues purely at the hardware level. We propose to model computations in terms of restartable task graphs in order to improve reliability at the software level. As a proof of concept, we present Cobra, a novel design for a shared-memory work-stealing scheduler that realizes this notion of restartable task graphs, and enables computations to survive hardware failures due to soft errors. A comparison with the work-stealing scheduler of Threading Building Blocks on the PARSEC benchmark suite shows that Cobra incurs no performance overhead in the absence of failures, and low performance overheads in the presence of single and multiple failures. version:1
arxiv-1706-04043 | Serialisable Multi-Level Transaction Control: A Specification and Verification | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04043 | id:1706.04043 author:Egon Börger, Klaus-Dieter Schewe, Qing Wang category:cs.DB cs.DC 68P15  68Q60  68Q85  published:2017-06-12 summary:We define a programming language independent controller TaCtl for multi-level transactions and an operator $TA$, which when applied to concurrent programs with multi-level shared locations containing hierarchically structured complex values, turns their behavior with respect to some abstract termination criterion into a transactional behavior. We prove the correctness property that concurrent runs under the transaction controller are serialisable, assuming an Inverse Operation Postulate to guarantee recoverability. For its applicability to a wide range of programs we specify the transaction controller TaCtl and the operator $TA$ in terms of Abstract State Machines (ASMs). This allows us to model concurrent updates at different levels of nested locations in a precise yet simple manner, namely in terms of partial ASM updates. It also provides the possibility to use the controller TaCtl and the operator $TA$ as a plug-in when specifying concurrent system components in terms of sequential ASMs. version:1
arxiv-1706-03498 | On the covariance of X in AX = XB | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03498 | id:1706.03498 author:Huy Nguyen, Quang-Cuong Pham category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-12 summary:Hand-eye calibration, which consists in identifying the rigid- body transformation between a camera mounted on the robot end-effector and the end-effector itself, is a fundamental problem in robot vision. Mathematically, this problem can be formulated as: solve for X in AX = XB. In this paper, we provide a rigorous derivation of the covariance of the solution X, when A and B are randomly perturbed matrices. This fine-grained information is critical for applications that require a high degree of perception precision. Our approach consists in applying covariance propagation methods in SE(3). Experiments involving synthetic and real calibration data confirm that our approach can predict the covariance of the hand-eye transformation with excellent precision. version:1
arxiv-1706-03471 | YellowFin and the Art of Momentum Tuning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03471 | id:1706.03471 author:Jian Zhang, Ioannis Mitliagkas, Christopher Ré category:stat.ML cs.AI  published:2017-06-12 summary:Hyperparameter tuning is one of the big costs of deep learning. State-of-the-art optimizers, such as Adagrad, RMSProp and Adam, make things easier by adaptively tuning an individual learning rate for each variable. This level of fine adaptation is understood to yield a more powerful method. However, our experiments, as well as recent theory by Wilson et al., show that hand-tuned stochastic gradient descent (SGD) achieves better results, at the same rate or faster. The hypothesis put forth is that adaptive methods converge to different minima (Wilson et al.). Here we point out another factor: none of these methods tune their momentum parameter, known to be very important for deep learning applications (Sutskever et al.). Tuning the momentum parameter becomes even more important in asynchronous-parallel systems: recent theory (Mitliagkas et al.) shows that asynchrony introduces momentum-like dynamics, and that tuning down algorithmic momentum is important for efficient parallelization. We revisit the simple momentum SGD algorithm and show that hand-tuning a single learning rate and momentum value makes it competitive with Adam. We then analyze its robustness in learning rate misspecification and objective curvature variation. Based on these insights, we design YellowFin, an automatic tuner for both momentum and learning rate in SGD. YellowFin optionally uses a novel momentum-sensing component along with a negative-feedback loop mechanism to compensate for the added dynamics of asynchrony on the fly. We empirically show YellowFin converges in fewer iterations than Adam on large ResNet and LSTM models, with a speedup up to $2.8$x in synchronous and $2.7$x in asynchronous settings. version:1
arxiv-1706-03469 | Data-Efficient Policy Evaluation Through Behavior Policy Search | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03469 | id:1706.03469 author:Josiah P. Hanna, Philip S. Thomas, Peter Stone, Scott Niekum category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-12 summary:We consider the task of evaluating a policy for a Markov decision process (MDP). The standard unbiased technique for evaluating a policy is to deploy the policy and observe its performance. We show that the data collected from deploying a different policy, commonly called the behavior policy, can be used to produce unbiased estimates with lower mean squared error than this standard technique. We derive an analytic expression for the optimal behavior policy --- the behavior policy that minimizes the mean squared error of the resulting estimates. Because this expression depends on terms that are unknown in practice, we propose a novel policy evaluation sub-problem, behavior policy search: searching for a behavior policy that reduces mean squared error. We present a behavior policy search algorithm and empirically demonstrate its effectiveness in lowering the mean squared error of policy performance estimates. version:1
arxiv-1508-00689 | Factor Graphs for Quantum Probabilities | http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.00689 | id:1508.00689 author:Hans-Andrea Loeliger, Pascal O. Vontobel category:cs.IT cs.AI math.IT math.ST quant-ph stat.TH  published:2015-08-04 summary:A factor-graph representation of quantum-mechanical probabilities (involving any number of measurements) is proposed. Unlike standard statistical models, the proposed representation uses auxiliary variables (state variables) that are not random variables. All joint probability distributions are marginals of some complex-valued function $q$, and it is demonstrated how the basic concepts of quantum mechanics relate to factorizations and marginals of $q$. version:3
arxiv-1706-03459 | Optimal Auctions through Deep Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03459 | id:1706.03459 author:Paul Dütting, Zhe Feng, Harikrishna Narasimhan, David C. Parkes category:cs.GT cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-12 summary:Designing an auction that maximizes expected revenue is an intricate task. Indeed, as of today--despite major efforts and impressive progress over the past few years--only the single-item case is fully understood. In this work, we initiate the exploration of the use of tools from deep learning on this topic. The design objective is revenue optimal, dominant-strategy incentive compatible auctions. We show that multi-layer neural networks can learn almost-optimal auctions for settings for which there are analytical solutions, such as Myerson's auction for a single item, Manelli and Vincent's mechanism for a single bidder with additive preferences over two items, or Yao's auction for two additive bidders with binary support distributions and multiple items, even if no prior knowledge about the form of optimal auctions is encoded in the network and the only feedback during training is revenue and regret. We further show how characterization results, even rather implicit ones such as Rochet's characterization through induced utilities and their gradients, can be leveraged to obtain more precise fits to the optimal design. We conclude by demonstrating the potential of deep learning for deriving optimal auctions with high revenue for poorly understood problems. version:1
arxiv-1612-04997 | Scalable Byzantine Consensus via Hardware-assisted Secret Sharing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.04997 | id:1612.04997 author:Jian Liu, Wenting Li, Ghassan O. Karame, N. Asokan category:cs.CR cs.DC  published:2016-12-15 summary:The surging interest in blockchain technology has revitalized the search for effective Byzantine consensus schemes. In particular, the blockchain community has been looking for ways to effectively integrate traditional Byzantine fault-tolerant (BFT) protocols into a blockchain consensus layer allowing various financial institutions to securely agree on the order of transactions. However, existing BFT protocols can only scale to tens of nodes due to their $O(n^2)$ message complexity. In this paper, we propose FastBFT, the fastest and most scalable BFT protocol to-date. At the heart of FastBFT is a novel message aggregation technique that combines hardware-based trusted execution environments (TEEs) with lightweight secret sharing primitives. Combining this technique with several other optimizations (i.e., optimistic execution, tree topology and failure detection), FastBFT achieves low latency and high throughput even for large scale networks. Via systematic analysis and experiments, we demonstrate that FastBFT has better scalability and performance than previous BFT protocols. version:2
arxiv-1706-04038 | Meta learning Framework for Automated Driving | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04038 | id:1706.04038 author:Ahmad El Sallab, Mahmoud Saeed, Omar Abdel Tawab, Mohammed Abdou category:cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-06-11 summary:The success of automated driving deployment is highly depending on the ability to develop an efficient and safe driving policy. The problem is well formulated under the framework of optimal control as a cost optimization problem. Model based solutions using traditional planning are efficient, but require the knowledge of the environment model. On the other hand, model free solutions suffer sample inefficiency and require too many interactions with the environment, which is infeasible in practice. Methods under the Reinforcement Learning framework usually require the notion of a reward function, which is not available in the real world. Imitation learning helps in improving sample efficiency by introducing prior knowledge obtained from the demonstrated behavior, on the risk of exact behavior cloning without generalizing to unseen environments. In this paper we propose a Meta learning framework, based on data set aggregation, to improve generalization of imitation learning algorithms. Under the proposed framework, we propose MetaDAgger, a novel algorithm which tackles the generalization issues in traditional imitation learning. We use The Open Race Car Simulator (TORCS) to test our algorithm. Results on unseen test tracks show significant improvement over traditional imitation learning algorithms, improving the learning time and sample efficiency in the same time. The results are also supported by visualization of the learnt features to prove generalization of the captured details. version:1
arxiv-1512-05864 | Optimization of Tree Modes for Parallel Hash Functions: A Case Study | http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.05864 | id:1512.05864 author:Kevin Atighehchi, Robert Rolland category:cs.DC cs.CR  published:2015-12-18 summary:This paper focuses on parallel hash functions based on tree modes of operation for an inner Variable-Input-Length function. This inner function can be either a single-block-length (SBL) and prefix-free MD hash function, or a sponge-based hash function. We discuss the various forms of optimality that can be obtained when designing parallel hash functions based on trees where all leaves have the same depth. The first result is a scheme which optimizes the tree topology in order to decrease the running time. Then, without affecting the optimal running time we show that we can slightly change the corresponding tree topology so as to minimize the number of required processors as well. Consequently, the resulting scheme decreases in the first place the running time and in the second place the number of required processors. version:7
arxiv-1706-03317 | Fault Tolerant Consensus Agreement Algorithm | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03317 | id:1706.03317 author:Marius Rafailescu category:cs.DB cs.DC  published:2017-06-11 summary:Recently a new fault tolerant and simple mechanism was designed for solving commit consensus problem. It is based on replicated validation of messages sent between transaction participants and a special dispatcher validator manager node. This paper presents a correctness, safety proofs and performance analysis of this algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1706-03304 | Deep Optimization for Spectrum Repacking | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03304 | id:1706.03304 author:Neil Newman, Alexandre Fréchette, Kevin Leyton-Brown category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-11 summary:Over 13 months in 2016-17 the FCC conducted an "incentive auction" to repurpose radio spectrum from broadcast television to wireless internet. In the end, the auction yielded $19.8 billion, $10.05 billion of which was paid to 175 broadcasters for voluntarily relinquishing their licenses across 14 UHF channels. Stations that continued broadcasting were assigned potentially new channels to fit as densely as possible into the channels that remained. The government netted more than $7 billion (used to pay down the national debt) after covering costs. A crucial element of the auction design was the construction of a solver, dubbed SATFC, that determined whether sets of stations could be "repacked" in this way; it needed to run every time a station was given a price quote. This paper describes the process by which we built SATFC. We adopted an approach we dub "deep optimization", taking a data-driven, highly parametric, and computationally intensive approach to solver design. More specifically, to build SATFC we designed software that could pair both complete and local-search SAT-encoded feasibility checking with a wide range of domain-specific techniques. We then used automatic algorithm configuration techniques to construct a portfolio of eight complementary algorithms to be run in parallel, aiming to achieve good performance on instances that arose in proprietary auction simulations. To evaluate the impact of our solver in this paper, we built an open-source reverse auction simulator. We found that within the short time budget required in practice, SATFC solved more than 95% of the problems it encountered. Furthermore, the incentive auction paired with SATFC produced nearly optimal allocations in a restricted setting and substantially outperformed other alternatives at national scale. version:1
arxiv-1706-03292 | Poseidon: An Efficient Communication Architecture for Distributed Deep Learning on GPU Clusters | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03292 | id:1706.03292 author:Hao Zhang, Zeyu Zheng, Shizhen Xu, Wei Dai, Qirong Ho, Xiaodan Liang, Zhiting Hu, Jinliang Wei, Pengtao Xie, Eric P. Xing category:cs.LG cs.CV cs.DC stat.ML  published:2017-06-11 summary:Deep learning models can take weeks to train on a single GPU-equipped machine, necessitating scaling out DL training to a GPU-cluster. However, current distributed DL implementations can scale poorly due to substantial parameter synchronization over the network, because the high throughput of GPUs allows more data batches to be processed per unit time than CPUs, leading to more frequent network synchronization. We present Poseidon, an efficient communication architecture for distributed DL on GPUs. Poseidon exploits the layered model structures in DL programs to overlap communication and computation, reducing bursty network communication. Moreover, Poseidon uses a hybrid communication scheme that optimizes the number of bytes required to synchronize each layer, according to layer properties and the number of machines. We show that Poseidon is applicable to different DL frameworks by plugging Poseidon into Caffe and TensorFlow. We show that Poseidon enables Caffe and TensorFlow to achieve 15.5x speed-up on 16 single-GPU machines, even with limited bandwidth (10GbE) and the challenging VGG19-22K network for image classification. Moreover, Poseidon-enabled TensorFlow achieves 31.5x speed-up with 32 single-GPU machines on Inception-V3, a 50% improvement over the open-source TensorFlow (20x speed-up). version:1
arxiv-1706-03768 | Causal Discovery in the Presence of Measurement Error: Identifiability Conditions | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03768 | id:1706.03768 author:Kun Zhang, Mingming Gong, Joseph Ramsey, Kayhan Batmanghelich, Peter Spirtes, Clark Glymour category:stat.ME cs.AI stat.ML  published:2017-06-10 summary:Measurement error in the observed values of the variables can greatly change the output of various causal discovery methods. This problem has received much attention in multiple fields, but it is not clear to what extent the causal model for the measurement-error-free variables can be identified in the presence of measurement error with unknown variance. In this paper, we study precise sufficient identifiability conditions for the measurement-error-free causal model and show what information of the causal model can be recovered from observed data. In particular, we present two different sets of identifiability conditions, based on the second-order statistics and higher-order statistics of the data, respectively. The former was inspired by the relationship between the generating model of the measurement-error-contaminated data and the factor analysis model, and the latter makes use of the identifiability result of the over-complete independent component analysis problem. version:1
arxiv-1706-03254 | On Hash-Based Work Distribution Methods for Parallel Best-First Search | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03254 | id:1706.03254 author:Yuu Jinnai, Alex Fukunaga category:cs.AI cs.DC  published:2017-06-10 summary:Parallel best-first search algorithms such as Hash Distributed A* (HDA*) distribute work among the processes using a global hash function. We analyze the search and communication overheads of state-of-the-art hash-based parallel best-first search algorithms, and show that although Zobrist hashing, the standard hash function used by HDA*, achieves good load balance for many domains, it incurs significant communication overhead since almost all generated nodes are transferred to a different processor than their parents. We propose Abstract Zobrist hashing, a new work distribution method for parallel search which, instead of computing a hash value based on the raw features of a state, uses a feature projection function to generate a set of abstract features which results in a higher locality, resulting in reduced communications overhead. We show that Abstract Zobrist hashing outperforms previous methods on search domains using hand-coded, domain specific feature projection functions. We then propose GRAZHDA*, a graph-partitioning based approach to automatically generating feature projection functions. GRAZHDA* seeks to approximate the partitioning of the actual search space graph by partitioning the domain transition graph, an abstraction of the state space graph. We show that GRAZHDA* outperforms previous methods on domain-independent planning. version:1
arxiv-1706-03251 | Proposal for a High Precision Tensor Processing Unit | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03251 | id:1706.03251 author:Eric B. Olsen category:cs.AR  published:2017-06-10 summary:This whitepaper proposes the design and adoption of a new generation of Tensor Processing Unit which has the performance of Google's TPU, yet performs operations on wide precision data. The new generation TPU is made possible by implementing arithmetic circuits which compute using a new general purpose, fractional arithmetic based on the residue number system. version:1
arxiv-1703-06565 | Evidence Updating for Stream-Processing in Big-Data: Robust Conditioning in Soft and Hard Fusion Environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06565 | id:1703.06565 author:Thanuka Wickramarathne category:cs.AI  published:2017-03-20 summary:Robust belief revision methods are crucial in streaming data situations for updating existing knowledge or beliefs with new incoming evidence. Bayes conditioning is the primary mechanism in use for belief revision in data fusion systems that use probabilistic inference. However, traditional conditioning methods face several challenges due to inherent data/source imperfections in big-data environments that harness soft (i.e., human or human-based) sources in addition to hard (i.e., physics-based) sensors. The objective of this paper is to investigate the most natural extension of Bayes conditioning that is suitable for evidence updating in the presence of such uncertainties. By viewing the evidence updating process as a thought experiment, an elegant strategy is derived for robust evidence updating in the presence of extreme uncertainties that are characteristic of big-data environments. In particular, utilizing the Fagin-Halpern conditional notions, a natural extension to Bayes conditioning is derived for evidence that takes the form of a general belief function. The presented work differs fundamentally from the Conditional Update Equation (CUE) and authors own extensions of it. An overview of this development is provided via illustrative examples. Furthermore, insights into parameter selection under various fusion contexts are also provided. version:2
arxiv-1706-03220 | Exploring Convolutional Networks for End-to-End Visual Servoing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03220 | id:1706.03220 author:Aseem Saxena, Harit Pandya, Gourav Kumar, Ayush Gaud, K. Madhava Krishna category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-06-10 summary:Present image based visual servoing approaches rely on extracting hand crafted visual features from an image. Choosing the right set of features is important as it directly affects the performance of any approach. Motivated by recent breakthroughs in performance of data driven methods on recognition and localization tasks, we aim to learn visual feature representations suitable for servoing tasks in unstructured and unknown environments. In this paper, we present an end-to-end learning based approach for visual servoing in diverse scenes where the knowledge of camera parameters and scene geometry is not available a priori. This is achieved by training a convolutional neural network over color images with synchronised camera poses. Through experiments performed in simulation and on a quadrotor, we demonstrate the efficacy and robustness of our approach for a wide range of camera poses in both indoor as well as outdoor environments. version:1
arxiv-1706-05424 | Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Cloud and Robotics (ICCR2016) | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05424 | id:1706.05424 author:Lei Zhang, Huaxi, Zhang category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-10 summary:The 3rd International conference on Cloud and Robotics (ICCR2016) was held November 23-23, 2016 in Saint Quentin (France). ICCR is the premier gathering of practitioners and researchers interested in how to bring the power of Cloud computing and Robotics to a new cutting-edge domain: Cloud robotics. The objective of ICCR is a working conference, where together Cloud computing and robotics researchers/practitioners to exchange their ideas. Different with traditional academic conference, ICCR is also a forum for researchers and practitioners in the two disciplines, fostering the collaboration of Cloud computing with robotics, and for practitioners to show their working projects and to discuss and exchange their problems with researchers to find a solution. version:1
arxiv-1706-03207 | Towards Statistical Reasoning in Description Logics over Finite Domains (Full Version) | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03207 | id:1706.03207 author:Rafael Peñaloza, Nico Potyka category:cs.AI cs.LO  published:2017-06-10 summary:We present a probabilistic extension of the description logic $\mathcal{ALC}$ for reasoning about statistical knowledge. We consider conditional statements over proportions of the domain and are interested in the probabilistic-logical consequences of these proportions. After introducing some general reasoning problems and analyzing their properties, we present first algorithms and complexity results for reasoning in some fragments of Statistical $\mathcal{ALC}$. version:1
arxiv-1706-03205 | Item Silk Road: Recommending Items from Information Domains to Social Users | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03205 | id:1706.03205 author:Xiang Wang, Xiangnan He, Liqiang Nie, Tat-Seng Chua category:cs.IR cs.AI cs.SI  published:2017-06-10 summary:Online platforms can be divided into information-oriented and social-oriented domains. The former refers to forums or E-commerce sites that emphasize user-item interactions, like Trip.com and Amazon; whereas the latter refers to social networking services (SNSs) that have rich user-user connections, such as Facebook and Twitter. Despite their heterogeneity, these two domains can be bridged by a few overlapping users, dubbed as bridge users. In this work, we address the problem of cross-domain social recommendation, i.e., recommending relevant items of information domains to potential users of social networks. To our knowledge, this is a new problem that has rarely been studied before. Existing cross-domain recommender systems are unsuitable for this task since they have either focused on homogeneous information domains or assumed that users are fully overlapped. Towards this end, we present a novel Neural Social Collaborative Ranking (NSCR) approach, which seamlessly sews up the user-item interactions in information domains and user-user connections in SNSs. In the information domain part, the attributes of users and items are leveraged to strengthen the embedding learning of users and items. In the SNS part, the embeddings of bridge users are propagated to learn the embeddings of other non-bridge users. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and rationality of our NSCR method. version:1
arxiv-1706-03178 | Serverless Computing: Current Trends and Open Problems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03178 | id:1706.03178 author:Ioana Baldini, Paul Castro, Kerry Chang, Perry Cheng, Stephen Fink, Vatche Ishakian, Nick Mitchell, Vinod Muthusamy, Rodric Rabbah, Aleksander Slominski, Philippe Suter category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-10 summary:Serverless computing has emerged as a new compelling paradigm for the deployment of applications and services. It represents an evolution of cloud programming models, abstractions, and platforms, and is a testament to the maturity and wide adoption of cloud technologies. In this chapter, we survey existing serverless platforms from industry, academia, and open source projects, identify key characteristics and use cases, and describe technical challenges and open problems. version:1
arxiv-1706-03162 | LazyPIM: Efficient Support for Cache Coherence in Processing-in-Memory Architectures | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03162 | id:1706.03162 author:Amirali Boroumand, Saugata Ghose, Minesh Patel, Hasan Hassan, Brandon Lucia, Nastaran Hajinazar, Kevin Hsieh, Krishna T. Malladi, Hongzhong Zheng, Onur Mutlu category:cs.AR  published:2017-06-10 summary:Processing-in-memory (PIM) architectures have seen an increase in popularity recently, as the high internal bandwidth available within 3D-stacked memory provides greater incentive to move some computation into the logic layer of the memory. To maintain program correctness, the portions of a program that are executed in memory must remain coherent with the portions of the program that continue to execute within the processor. Unfortunately, PIM architectures cannot use traditional approaches to cache coherence due to the high off-chip traffic consumed by coherence messages, which, as we illustrate in this work, can undo the benefits of PIM execution for many data-intensive applications. We propose LazyPIM, a new hardware cache coherence mechanism designed specifically for PIM. Prior approaches for coherence in PIM are ill-suited to applications that share a large amount of data between the processor and the PIM logic. LazyPIM uses a combination of speculative cache coherence and compressed coherence signatures to greatly reduce the overhead of keeping PIM coherent with the processor, even when a large amount of sharing exists.We find that LazyPIM improves average performance across a range of data-intensive PIM applications by 19.6%, reduces off-chip traffic by 30.9%, and reduces energy consumption by 18.0%, over the best prior approaches to PIM coherence. version:1
arxiv-1706-03146 | Rethinking Skip-thought: A Neighborhood based Approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03146 | id:1706.03146 author:Shuai Tang, Hailin Jin, Chen Fang, Zhaowen Wang, Virginia R. de Sa category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.NE  published:2017-06-09 summary:We study the skip-thought model with neighborhood information as weak supervision. More specifically, we propose a skip-thought neighbor model to consider the adjacent sentences as a neighborhood. We train our skip-thought neighbor model on a large corpus with continuous sentences, and then evaluate the trained model on 7 tasks, which include semantic relatedness, paraphrase detection, and classification benchmarks. Both quantitative comparison and qualitative investigation are conducted. We empirically show that, our skip-thought neighbor model performs as well as the skip-thought model on evaluation tasks. In addition, we found that, incorporating an autoencoder path in our model didn't aid our model to perform better, while it hurts the performance of the skip-thought model. version:1
arxiv-1706-03144 | A Focal Any-Angle Path-finding Algorithm Based on A* on Visibility Graphs | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03144 | id:1706.03144 author:Pei Cao, Zhaoyan Fan, Robert X. Gao, Jiong Tang category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-09 summary:In this research, we investigate the subject of path-finding. A pruned version of visibility graph based on Candidate Vertices is formulated, followed by a new visibility check technique. Such combination enables us to quickly identify the useful vertices and thus find the optimal path more efficiently. The algorithm proposed is demonstrated on various path-finding cases. The performance of the new technique on visibility graphs is compared to the traditional A* on Grids, Theta* and A* on Visibility Graphs in terms of path length, number of nodes evaluated, as well as computational time. The key algorithmic contribution is that the new approach combines the merits of grid-based method and visibility graph-based method and thus yields better overall performance. version:1
arxiv-1706-03122 | Off The Beaten Lane: AI Challenges In MOBAs Beyond Player Control | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03122 | id:1706.03122 author:Michael Cook, Adam Summerville, Simon Colton category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-09 summary:MOBAs represent a huge segment of online gaming and are growing as both an eSport and a casual genre. The natural starting point for AI researchers interested in MOBAs is to develop an AI to play the game better than a human - but MOBAs have many more challenges besides adversarial AI. In this paper we introduce the reader to the wider context of MOBA culture, propose a range of challenges faced by the community today, and posit concrete AI projects that can be undertaken to begin solving them. version:1
arxiv-1706-03107 | Graph Reconstruction in the Congested Clique | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03107 | id:1706.03107 author:Pedro Montealegre, Sebastian Perez-Salazar, Ivan Rapaport, Ioan Todinca category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-09 summary:The congested clique model is a message-passing model of distributed computation where the underlying communication network is the complete graph of $n$ nodes. In this paper we consider the situation where the joint input to the nodes is an $n$-node labeled graph $G$, i.e., the local input received by each node is the indicator function of its neighborhood in $G$. Nodes execute an algorithm, communicating with each other in synchronous rounds and their goal is to compute some function that depends on $G$. In every round, each of the $n$ nodes may send up to $n-1$ different $b$-bit messages through each of its $n-1$ communication links. We denote by $R$ the number of rounds of the algorithm. The product $Rb$, that is, the total number of bits received by a node through one link, is the cost of the algorithm. The most difficult problem we could attempt to solve is the reconstruction problem, where nodes are asked to recover all the edges of the input graph $G$. Formally, given a class of graphs $\mathcal G$, the problem is defined as follows: if $G \notin {\mathcal G}$, then every node must reject; on the other hand, if $G \in {\mathcal G}$, then every node must end up, after the $R$ rounds, knowing all the edges of $G$. It is not difficult to see that the cost $Rb$ of any algorithm that solves this problem (even with public coins) is at least $\Omega(\log \mathcal{G}_n /n)$, where $\mathcal{G}_n$ is the subclass of all $n$-node labeled graphs in $\mathcal G$. In this paper we prove that previous bound is tight and that it is possible to achieve it with only $R=2$ rounds. More precisely, we exhibit (i) a one-round algorithm that achieves this bound for hereditary graph classes; and (ii) a two-round algorithm that achieves this bound for arbitrary graph classes. version:1
arxiv-1511-06035 | Malthusian Locks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.06035 | id:1511.06035 author:Dave Dice category:cs.DC D.4.1; D.1.3  published:2015-11-19 summary:Applications running in modern multithreaded environments are sometimes \emph{over-threaded}. The excess threads do not improve performance, and in fact may act to degrade performance via \emph{scalability collapse}. Often, such software also has highly contended locks. We opportunistically leverage the existence of such locks by modifying the lock admission policy so as to intentionally limit the number of threads circulating over the lock in a given period. Specifically, if there are more threads circulating than are necessary to keep the lock saturated, our approach will selectively cull and passivate some of those threads. We borrow the concept of \emph{swapping} from the field of memory management and intentionally impose \emph{concurrency restriction} (CR) if a lock is oversubscribed. In the worst case CR does no harm, but it often yields performance benefits. The resultant admission order is unfair over the short term but we explicitly provide long-term fairness by periodically shifting threads between the set of passivated threads and those actively circulating. Our approach is palliative, but often effective. version:7
arxiv-1602-04095 | Deterministic graph connectivity in the broadcast congested clique | http://arxiv.org/abs/1602.04095 | id:1602.04095 author:Pedro Montealegre, Ioan Todinca category:cs.DC cs.DS  published:2016-02-12 summary:We present deterministic constant-round protocols for the graph connectivity problem in the model where each of the $n$ nodes of a graph receives a row of the adjacency matrix, and broadcasts a single sublinear size message to all other nodes. Communication rounds are synchronous. This model is sometimes called the broadcast congested clique. Specifically, we exhibit a deterministic protocol that computes the connected components of the input graph in $\lceil 1/\epsilon \rceil$ rounds, each player communicating $\mathcal{O}(n^{\epsilon} \cdot \log n)$ bits per round, with $0 < \epsilon \leq 1$. We also provide a deterministic one-round protocol for connectivity, in the model when each node receives as input the graph induced by the nodes at distance at most $r>0$, and communicates $\mathcal{O}(n^{1/r} \cdot \log n)$ bits. This result is based on a $d$-pruning protocol, which consists in successively removing nodes of degree at most $d$ until obtaining a graph with minimum degree larger than $d$. Our technical novelty is the introduction of deterministic sparse linear sketches: a linear compression function that permits to recover sparse Boolean vectors deterministically. version:3
arxiv-1706-03065 | Towards balanced clustering - part 1 (preliminaries) | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03065 | id:1706.03065 author:Mark Sh. Levin category:cs.DS cs.AI  published:2017-06-09 summary:The article contains a preliminary glance at balanced clustering problems. Basic balanced structures and combinatorial balanced problems are briefly described. A special attention is targeted to various balance/unbalance indices (including some new versions of the indices): by cluster cardinality, by cluster weights, by inter-cluster edge/arc weights, by cluster element structure (for element multi-type clustering). Further, versions of optimization clustering problems are suggested (including multicriteria problem formulations). Illustrative numerical examples describe calculation of balance indices and element multi-type balance clustering problems (including example for design of student teams). version:1
arxiv-1706-03100 | Decoupling Learning Rules from Representations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03100 | id:1706.03100 author:Philip S. Thomas, Christoph Dann, Emma Brunskill category:cs.AI cs.LG stat.ML  published:2017-06-09 summary:In the artificial intelligence field, learning often corresponds to changing the parameters of a parameterized function. A learning rule is an algorithm or mathematical expression that specifies precisely how the parameters should be changed. When creating an artificial intelligence system, we must make two decisions: what representation should be used (i.e., what parameterized function should be used) and what learning rule should be used to search through the resulting set of representable functions. Using most learning rules, these two decisions are coupled in a subtle (and often unintentional) way. That is, using the same learning rule with two different representations that can represent the same sets of functions can result in two different outcomes. After arguing that this coupling is undesirable, particularly when using artificial neural networks, we present a method for partially decoupling these two decisions for a broad class of learning rules that span unsupervised learning, reinforcement learning, and supervised learning. version:1
arxiv-1703-09326 | Preserving Stabilization while Practically Bounding State Space | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.09326 | id:1703.09326 author:Vidhya Tekken Valapil, Sandeep S. Kulkarni category:cs.DC  published:2017-03-27 summary:Stabilization is a key dependability property for dealing with unanticipated transient faults, as it guarantees that even in the presence of such faults, the system will recover to states where it satisfies its specification. One of the desirable attributes of stabilization is the use of bounded space for each variable. In this paper, we present an algorithm that transforms a stabilizing program that uses variables with unbounded domain into a stabilizing program that uses bounded variables and (practically bounded) physical time. While non-stabilizing programs (that do not handle transient faults) can deal with unbounded variables by assigning large enough but bounded space, stabilizing programs that need to deal with arbitrary transient faults cannot do the same since a transient fault may corrupt the variable to its maximum value. We show that our transformation algorithm is applicable to several problems including logical clocks, vector clocks, mutual exclusion, leader election, diffusing computations, Paxos based consensus, and so on. Moreover, our approach can also be used to bound counters used in an earlier work by Katz and Perry for adding stabilization to a non-stabilizing program. By combining our algorithm with that earlier work by Katz and Perry, it would be possible to provide stabilization for a rich class of problems, by assigning large enough but bounded space for variables. version:2
arxiv-1706-02999 | Symmetry Learning for Function Approximation in Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02999 | id:1706.02999 author:Anuj Mahajan, Theja Tulabandhula category:stat.ML cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-09 summary:In this paper we explore methods to exploit symmetries for ensuring sample efficiency in reinforcement learning (RL), this problem deserves ever increasing attention with the recent advances in the use of deep networks for complex RL tasks which require large amount of training data. We introduce a novel method to detect symmetries using reward trails observed during episodic experience and prove its completeness. We also provide a framework to incorporate the discovered symmetries for functional approximation. Finally we show that the use of potential based reward shaping is especially effective for our symmetry exploitation mechanism. Experiments on various classical problems show that our method improves the learning performance significantly by utilizing symmetry information. version:1
arxiv-1706-02970 | On the Strong Scaling of the Spectral Element Solver Nek5000 on Petascale Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02970 | id:1706.02970 author:Nicolas Offermans, Oana Marin, Michel Schanen, Jing Gong, Paul Fischer, Philipp Schlatter, Aleks Obabko, Adam Peplinksi, Maxwell Hutchinson, Elia Merzari category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-09 summary:The present work is targeted at performing a strong scaling study of the high-order spectral element fluid dynamics solver Nek5000. Prior studies indicated a recommendable metric for strong scalability from a theoretical viewpoint, which we test here extensively on three parallel machines with different performance characteristics and interconnect networks, namely Mira (IBM Blue Gene/Q), Beskow (Cray XC40) and Titan (Cray XK7). The test cases considered for the simulations correspond to a turbulent flow in a straight pipe at four different friction Reynolds numbers $Re_{\tau}$ = 180, 360, 550 and 1000. Considering the linear model for parallel communication we quantify the machine characteristics in order to better assess the scaling behaviors of the code. Subsequently sampling and profiling tools are used to measure the computation and communication times over a large range of compute cores. We also study the effect of the two coarse grid solvers XXT and AMG on the computational time. Super-linear scaling due to a reduction in cache misses is observed on each computer. The strong scaling limit is attained for roughly 5000 - 10,000 degrees of freedom per core on Mira, 30,000 - 50,0000 on Beskow, with only a small impact of the problem size for both machines, and ranges between 10,000 and 220,000 depending on the problem size on Titan. This work aims at being a reference for Nek5000 users and also serves as a basis for potential issues to address as the community heads towards exascale supercomputers. version:1
arxiv-1706-02952 | TIP: Typifying the Interpretability of Procedures | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02952 | id:1706.02952 author:Amit Dhurandhar, Vijay Iyengar, Ronny Luss, Karthikeyan Shanmugam category:cs.AI stat.AP stat.CO stat.ML  published:2017-06-09 summary:We provide a novel notion of what it means to be interpretable, looking past the usual association with human understanding. Our key insight is that interpretability is not an absolute concept and so we define it relative to a target model, which may or may not be a human. We define a framework that allows for comparing interpretable procedures by linking it to important practical aspects such as accuracy and robustness. We characterize many of the current state-of-the-art interpretable methods in our framework portraying its general applicability. Finally, principled interpretable strategies are proposed and empirically evaluated on synthetic data, as well as on the largest public olfaction dataset that was made recently available \cite{olfs}. We also experiment on MNIST with a simple target model and different oracle models of varying complexity. This leads to the insight that the improvement in the target model is not only a function of the oracle models performance, but also its relative complexity with respect to the target model. version:1
arxiv-1706-02542 | OrbTouch: Recognizing Human Touch in Deformable Interfaces with Deep Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02542 | id:1706.02542 author:Chris Larson, Josef Spjut, Ross Knepper, Robert Shepherd category:cs.HC cs.RO stat.ML  published:2017-06-08 summary:User interfaces provide an interactive window between physical and virtual environments. A new concept in the field of human-computer interaction is a soft user interface; a compliant surface that facilitates touch interaction through deformation. Despite the potential of these interfaces, they currently lack a signal processing framework that can efficiently extract information from their deformation. Here we present OrbTouch, a device that uses statistical learning algorithms, based on convolutional neural networks, to map deformations from human touch to categorical labels (i.e., gestures) and touch location using stretchable capacitor signals as inputs. We demonstrate this approach by using the device to control the popular game Tetris. OrbTouch provides a modular, robust framework to interpret deformation in soft media, laying a foundation for new modes of human computer interaction through shape changing solids. version:2
arxiv-1706-02939 | An Efficient Algorithm for Computing High-Quality Paths amid Polygonal Obstacles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02939 | id:1706.02939 author:Pankaj K. Agarwal, Kyle Fox, Oren Salzman category:cs.CG cs.DS cs.RO  published:2017-06-09 summary:We study a path-planning problem amid a set $\mathcal{O}$ of obstacles in $\mathbb{R}^2$, in which we wish to compute a short path between two points while also maintaining a high clearance from $\mathcal{O}$; the clearance of a point is its distance from a nearest obstacle in $\mathcal{O}$. Specifically, the problem asks for a path minimizing the reciprocal of the clearance integrated over the length of the path. We present the first polynomial-time approximation scheme for this problem. Let $n$ be the total number of obstacle vertices and let $\varepsilon \in (0,1]$. Our algorithm computes in time $O(\frac{n^2}{\varepsilon ^2} \log \frac{n}{\varepsilon})$ a path of total cost at most $(1+\varepsilon)$ times the cost of the optimal path. version:1
arxiv-1706-02908 | Multi-Modal Obstacle Detection in Unstructured Environments with Conditional Random Fields | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02908 | id:1706.02908 author:Mikkel Kragh, James Underwood category:cs.RO cs.CV  published:2017-06-09 summary:Reliable obstacle detection and classification in rough and unstructured terrain such as agricultural fields or orchards remains a challenging problem. These environments involve large variations in both geometry and appearance, challenging perception systems that rely on only a single sensor modality. Geometrically, tall grass, fallen leaves, or terrain roughness can mistakenly be perceived as non-traversable or might even obscure actual obstacles. Likewise, traversable grass or dirt roads and obstacles such as trees and bushes might be visually ambiguous. In this paper, we combine appearance- and geometry-based detection methods by probabilistically fusing lidar and camera sensing using a conditional random field. We apply a state-of-the-art multi-modal fusion algorithm from the scene analysis domain and adjust it for obstacle detection in agriculture with moving ground vehicles. This involves explicitly handling sparse point cloud data and exploiting both spatial, temporal, and multi-modal links between corresponding 2D and 3D regions. The proposed method is evaluated on a diverse dataset, comprising a dairy paddock and a number of different orchards gathered with a perception research robot in Australia. Results show that for a two-class classification problem (ground and non-ground), only the camera leverages from information provided by the other modality. However, as more classes are introduced (ground, sky, vegetation, and object), both modalities complement each other and improve the mean classification score. Further improvement is achieved by introducing recursive inference with temporal links between successive frames. version:1
arxiv-1706-02832 | A Tutor Agent for MOBA Games | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02832 | id:1706.02832 author:Victor do Nascimento Silva, Luiz Chaimowicz category:cs.AI cs.CY  published:2017-06-09 summary:Digital games have become a key player in the entertainment industry, attracting millions of new players each year. In spite of that, novice players may have a hard time when playing certain types of games, such as MOBAs and MMORPGs, due to their steep learning curves and not so friendly online communities. In this paper, we present an approach to help novice players in MOBA games overcome these problems. An artificial intelligence agent plays alongside the player analyzing his/her performance and giving tips about the game. Experiments performed with the game {\em League of Legends} show the potential of this approach. version:1
arxiv-1706-02796 | Dynamic Difficulty Adjustment on MOBA Games | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02796 | id:1706.02796 author:Mirna Paula Silva, Victor do Nascimento Silva, Luiz Chaimowicz category:cs.AI cs.CY  published:2017-06-08 summary:This paper addresses the dynamic difficulty adjustment on MOBA games as a way to improve the player's entertainment. Although MOBA is currently one of the most played genres around the world, it is known as a game that offer less autonomy, more challenges and consequently more frustration. Due to these characteristics, the use of a mechanism that performs the difficulty balance dynamically seems to be an interesting alternative to minimize and/or avoid that players experience such frustrations. In this sense, this paper presents a dynamic difficulty adjustment mechanism for MOBA games. The main idea is to create a computer controlled opponent that adapts dynamically to the player performance, trying to offer to the player a better game experience. This is done by evaluating the performance of the player using a metric based on some game features and switching the difficulty of the opponent's artificial intelligence behavior accordingly. Quantitative and qualitative experiments were performed and the results showed that the system is capable of adapting dynamically to the opponent's skills. In spite of that, the qualitative experiments with users showed that the player's expertise has a greater influence on the perception of the difficulty level and dynamic adaptation. version:1
arxiv-1706-02794 | Rapid Randomized Restarts for Multi-Agent Path Finding Solvers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02794 | id:1706.02794 author:Liron Cohen, Glenn Wagner, T. K. Satish Kumar, Howie Choset, Sven Koenig category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-08 summary:Multi-Agent Path Finding (MAPF) is an NP-hard problem well studied in artificial intelligence and robotics. It has many real-world applications for which existing MAPF solvers use various heuristics. However, these solvers are deterministic and perform poorly on "hard" instances typically characterized by many agents interfering with each other in a small region. In this paper, we enhance MAPF solvers with randomization and observe that they exhibit heavy-tailed distributions of runtimes on hard instances. This leads us to develop simple rapid randomized restart (RRR) strategies with the intuition that, given a hard instance, multiple short runs have a better chance of solving it compared to one long run. We validate this intuition through experiments and show that our RRR strategies indeed boost the performance of state-of-the-art MAPF solvers such as iECBS and M*. version:1
arxiv-1706-02792 | The FastMap Algorithm for Shortest Path Computations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02792 | id:1706.02792 author:Liron Cohen, T. K. Satish Kumar, Tansel Uras, Sven Koenig category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-08 summary:We present a new preprocessing algorithm for embedding the nodes of a given edge-weighted undirected graph into a Euclidean space. In this space, the Euclidean distance between any two nodes approximates the length of the shortest path between them in the given graph. Later, at runtime, a shortest path between any two nodes can be computed using A* search with the Euclidean distances as heuristic estimates. Our preprocessing algorithm, dubbed FastMap, is inspired by the Data Mining algorithm of the same name and runs in near-linear time. Hence, FastMap is orders of magnitude faster than competing approaches that produce a Euclidean embedding using Semidefinite Programming. Our FastMap algorithm also produces admissible and consistent heuristics and therefore guarantees the generation of optimal paths. Moreover, FastMap works on general undirected graphs for which many traditional heuristics, such as the Manhattan Distance heuristic, are not always well defined. Empirically too, we demonstrate that the FastMap heuristic is competitive with other state-of-the-art heuristics like the Differential heuristic. version:1
arxiv-1706-02789 | On the Development of Intelligent Agents for MOBA Games | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02789 | id:1706.02789 author:Victor do Nascimento Silva, Luiz Chaimowicz category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-08 summary:Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) is one of the most played game genres nowadays. With the increasing growth of this genre, it becomes necessary to develop effective intelligent agents to play alongside or against human players. In this paper we address the problem of agent development for MOBA games. We implement a two-layered architecture agent that handles both navigation and game mechanics. This architecture relies on the use of Influence Maps, a widely used approach for tactical analysis. Several experiments were performed using {\em League of Legends} as a testbed, and show promising results in this highly dynamic real-time context. version:1
arxiv-1706-02780 | Setting Players' Behaviors in World of Warcraft through Semi-Supervised Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02780 | id:1706.02780 author:Marcelo Souza Nery, Roque Anderson Teixeira, Victor do Nascimento Silva, Adriano Alonso Veloso category:cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-08 summary:Digital games are one of the major and most important fields on the entertainment domain, which also involves cinema and music. Numerous attempts have been done to improve the quality of the games including more realistic artistic production and computer science. Assessing the player's behavior, a task known as player modeling, is currently the need of the hour which leads to possible improvements in terms of: (i) better game interaction experience, (ii) better exploitation of the relationship between players, and (iii) increasing/maintaining the number of players interested in the game. In this paper we model players using the basic four behaviors proposed in \cite{BartleArtigo}, namely: achiever, explorer, socializer and killer. Our analysis is carried out using data obtained from the game "World of Warcraft" over 3 years (2006 $-$ 2009). We employ a semi-supervised learning technique in order to find out characteristics that possibly impact player's behavior. version:1
arxiv-1706-02757 | Sympathy Begins with a Smile, Intelligence Begins with a Word: Use of Multimodal Features in Spoken Human-Robot Interaction | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02757 | id:1706.02757 author:Jekaterina Novikova, Christian Dondrup, Ioannis Papaioannou, Oliver Lemon category:cs.RO cs.CL cs.HC  published:2017-06-08 summary:Recognition of social signals, from human facial expressions or prosody of speech, is a popular research topic in human-robot interaction studies. There is also a long line of research in the spoken dialogue community that investigates user satisfaction in relation to dialogue characteristics. However, very little research relates a combination of multimodal social signals and language features detected during spoken face-to-face human-robot interaction to the resulting user perception of a robot. In this paper we show how different emotional facial expressions of human users, in combination with prosodic characteristics of human speech and features of human-robot dialogue, correlate with users' impressions of the robot after a conversation. We find that happiness in the user's recognised facial expression strongly correlates with likeability of a robot, while dialogue-related features (such as number of human turns or number of sentences per robot utterance) correlate with perceiving a robot as intelligent. In addition, we show that facial expression, emotional features, and prosody are better predictors of human ratings related to perceived robot likeability and anthropomorphism, while linguistic and non-linguistic features more often predict perceived robot intelligence and interpretability. As such, these characteristics may in future be used as an online reward signal for in-situ Reinforcement Learning based adaptive human-robot dialogue systems. version:1
arxiv-1706-02725 | Demystifying the Characteristics of 3D-Stacked Memories: A Case Study for Hybrid Memory Cube | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02725 | id:1706.02725 author:Ramyad Hadidi, Bahar Asgari, Burhan Ahmad Mudassar, Saibal Mukhopadhyay, Sudhakar Yalamanchili, Hyesoon Kim category:cs.AR cs.ET  published:2017-06-08 summary:Three-dimensional (3D)-stacking technology, which enables the integration of DRAM and logic dies, offers high bandwidth and low energy consumption. It also empowers new memory designs for executing tasks not traditionally associated with memories. A practical 3D-stacked memory is Hybrid Memory Cube (HMC), which provides significant access bandwidth and low power consumption in a small area. Although several studies have taken advantage of the novel architecture of HMC, they have not fully explored either its characteristics in terms of latency and bandwidth or their correlation with temperature and power consumption. This paper is the first to characterize the thermal behavior of HMC in a real environment using the AC-510 accelerator and to identify temperature as a new limitation for this state-of-the-art design space. Moreover, we deconstruct factors that contribute to access latency and reveal their sources for high- and low-load accesses. The results and observations of this work should provide constructive information for high-performance-computing (HPC) research. version:1
arxiv-1705-11190 | The Morphospace of Consciousness | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.11190 | id:1705.11190 author:Xerxes D. Arsiwalla, Clement Moulin-Frier, Ivan Herreros, Marti Sanchez-Fibla, Paul Verschure category:q-bio.NC cond-mat.dis-nn cs.AI physics.bio-ph  published:2017-05-31 summary:Given recent proposals to synthesize consciousness, how many forms of conscious machines can one distinguish and on what grounds? Based on current clinical scales of consciousness, that measure cognitive awareness and wakefulness, we take a perspective on how contemporary artificially intelligent machines and synthetically engineered life forms would measure on these scales. To do so, we argue that awareness and wakefulness can be associated to computational and autonomous complexity respectively. Then, building on insights from cognitive robotics, we ask what function consciousness serves, and interpret it as an evolutionary game-theoretic strategy. We make the case for a third type of complexity necessary for describing consciousness, namely, social complexity. Having identified these complexity types, allows us to represent both, biological and synthetic systems in a common morphospace. This suggests an embodiment-based taxonomy of consciousness. In particular, we distinguish four forms of consciousness, based on embodiment: biological, synthetic, group (resulting from group interactions) and simulated consciousness (embodied by virtual agents within a simulated reality). Such a taxonomy is useful for studying comparative signatures of consciousness across domains, in order to highlight design principles necessary to engineer conscious machines. This is particularly relevant in the light of recent developments at the crossroads of neuroscience, biomedical engineering, artificial intelligence and biomimetics. version:2
arxiv-1706-02929 | Evidence Against Evidence Theory (?!) | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02929 | id:1706.02929 author:Mieczysław A. Kłopotek, Andrzej Matuszewski category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-08 summary:This paper is concerned with the apparent greatest weakness of the Mathematical Theory of Evidence (MTE) of Shafer \cite{Shafer:76}, which has been strongly criticized by Wasserman \cite{Wasserman:92ijar} - the relationship to frequencies. Weaknesses of various proposals of probabilistic interpretation of MTE belief functions are demonstrated. A new frequency-based interpretation is presented overcoming various drawbacks of earlier interpretations. version:1
arxiv-1706-02686 | What Does a Belief Function Believe In ? | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02686 | id:1706.02686 author:Andrzej Matuszewski, Mieczysław A. Kłopotek category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-08 summary:The conditioning in the Dempster-Shafer Theory of Evidence has been defined (by Shafer \cite{Shafer:90} as combination of a belief function and of an "event" via Dempster rule. On the other hand Shafer \cite{Shafer:90} gives a "probabilistic" interpretation of a belief function (hence indirectly its derivation from a sample). Given the fact that conditional probability distribution of a sample-derived probability distribution is a probability distribution derived from a subsample (selected on the grounds of a conditioning event), the paper investigates the empirical nature of the Dempster- rule of combination. It is demonstrated that the so-called "conditional" belief function is not a belief function given an event but rather a belief function given manipulation of original empirical data.\\ Given this, an interpretation of belief function different from that of Shafer is proposed. Algorithms for construction of belief networks from data are derived for this interpretation. version:1
arxiv-1706-02677 | Accurate, Large Minibatch SGD: Training ImageNet in 1 Hour | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02677 | id:1706.02677 author:Priya Goyal, Piotr Dollár, Ross Girshick, Pieter Noordhuis, Lukasz Wesolowski, Aapo Kyrola, Andrew Tulloch, Yangqing Jia, Kaiming He category:cs.CV cs.DC cs.LG  published:2017-06-08 summary:Deep learning thrives with large neural networks and large datasets. However, larger networks and larger datasets result in longer training times that impede research and development progress. Distributed synchronous SGD offers a potential solution to this problem by dividing SGD minibatches over a pool of parallel workers. Yet to make this scheme efficient, the per-worker workload must be large, which implies nontrivial growth in the SGD minibatch size. In this paper, we empirically show that on the ImageNet dataset large minibatches cause optimization difficulties, but when these are addressed the trained networks exhibit good generalization. Specifically, we show no loss of accuracy when training with large minibatch sizes up to 8192 images. To achieve this result, we adopt a linear scaling rule for adjusting learning rates as a function of minibatch size and develop a new warmup scheme that overcomes optimization challenges early in training. With these simple techniques, our Caffe2-based system trains ResNet-50 with a minibatch size of 8192 on 256 GPUs in one hour, while matching small minibatch accuracy. Using commodity hardware, our implementation achieves ~90% scaling efficiency when moving from 8 to 256 GPUs. This system enables us to train visual recognition models on internet-scale data with high efficiency. version:1
arxiv-1706-00517 | CATERPILLAR: Coarse Grain Reconfigurable Architecture for Accelerating the Training of Deep Neural Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00517 | id:1706.00517 author:Yuanfang Li, Ardavan Pedram category:cs.DC cs.LG cs.NE  published:2017-06-01 summary:Accelerating the inference of a trained DNN is a well studied subject. In this paper we switch the focus to the training of DNNs. The training phase is compute intensive, demands complicated data communication, and contains multiple levels of data dependencies and parallelism. This paper presents an algorithm/architecture space exploration of efficient accelerators to achieve better network convergence rates and higher energy efficiency for training DNNs. We further demonstrate that an architecture with hierarchical support for collective communication semantics provides flexibility in training various networks performing both stochastic and batched gradient descent based techniques. Our results suggest that smaller networks favor non-batched techniques while performance for larger networks is higher using batched operations. At 45nm technology, CATERPILLAR achieves performance efficiencies of 177 GFLOPS/W at over 80% utilization for SGD training on small networks and 211 GFLOPS/W at over 90% utilization for pipelined SGD/CP training on larger networks using a total area of 103.2 mm$^2$ and 178.9 mm$^2$ respectively. version:2
arxiv-1706-02540 | Clique Gossiping | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02540 | id:1706.02540 author:Yang Liu, Bo Li, Brian Anderson, Guodong Shi category:cs.DC cs.SY  published:2017-06-08 summary:This paper proposes and investigates a framework for clique gossip protocols. As complete subnetworks, the existence of cliques is ubiquitous in various social, computer, and engineering networks. By clique gossiping, nodes interact with each other along a sequence of cliques. Clique-gossip protocols are defined as arbitrary linear node interactions where node states are vectors evolving as linear dynamical systems. Such protocols become clique-gossip averaging algorithms when node states are scalars under averaging rules. We generalize the classical notion of line graph to capture the essential node interaction structure induced by both the underlying network and the specific clique sequence. We prove a fundamental eigenvalue invariance principle for periodic clique-gossip protocols, which implies that any permutation of the clique sequence leads to the same spectrum for the overall state transition when the generalized line graph contains no cycle. We also prove that for a network with $n$ nodes, cliques with smaller sizes determined by factors of $n$ can always be constructed leading to finite-time convergent clique-gossip averaging algorithms, provided $n$ is not a prime number. Particularly, such finite-time convergence can be achieved with cliques of equal size $m$ if and only if $n$ is divisible by $m$ and they have exactly the same prime factors. A proven fastest finite-time convergent clique-gossip algorithm is constructed for clique-gossiping using size-$m$ cliques. Additionally, the acceleration effects of clique-gossiping are illustrated via numerical examples. version:1
arxiv-1706-02513 | Responsible Autonomy | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02513 | id:1706.02513 author:Virginia Dignum category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-08 summary:As intelligent systems are increasingly making decisions that directly affect society, perhaps the most important upcoming research direction in AI is to rethink the ethical implications of their actions. Means are needed to integrate moral, societal and legal values with technological developments in AI, both during the design process as well as part of the deliberation algorithms employed by these systems. In this paper, we describe leading ethics theories and propose alternative ways to ensure ethical behavior by artificial systems. Given that ethics are dependent on the socio-cultural context and are often only implicit in deliberation processes, methodologies are needed to elicit the values held by designers and stakeholders, and to make these explicit leading to better understanding and trust on artificial autonomous systems. version:1
arxiv-1706-02474 | Asynchronous Pattern Formation: the effects of a rigorous approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02474 | id:1706.02474 author:Serafino Cicerone, Gabriele Di Stefano, Alfredo Navarra category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-08 summary:Given a multiset F of points in the Euclidean plane and a set R of robots such that R = F , the Pattern Formation (PF) problem asks for a distributed algorithm that moves robots so as to reach a configuration similar to F. Similarity means that robots must be disposed as F regardless of translations, rotations, reflections, uniform scalings. Initially, each robot occupies a distinct position. When active, a robot operates in standard Look-Compute-Move cycles. Robots are asynchronous, oblivious, anonymous, silent and execute the same distributed algorithm. So far, the problem has been mainly addressed by assuming chirality, that is robots share a common left-right orientation. We are interested in removing such a restriction. While working on the subject, we faced several issues that required close attention. We deeply investigated how such difficulties were overcome in the literature, revealing that crucial arguments for the correctness proof of the existing algorithms have been neglected. Here we design a new deterministic distributed algorithm that solves PF for any pattern when asynchronous robots start from asymmetric configurations, without chirality. The focus on asymmetric configurations might be perceived as an over-simplification of the subject due to the common feeling with the PF problem by the scientific community. However, we demonstrate that this is not the case. The systematic lack of rigorous arguments with respect to necessary conditions required for providing correctness proofs deeply affects the validity as well as the relevance of strategies proposed in the literature. Our new methodology is characterized by the use of logical predicates in order to formally describe our algorithm as well as its correctness. version:1
arxiv-1706-02462 | Regular Boardgames | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02462 | id:1706.02462 author:Jakub Kowalski, Jakub Sutowicz, Marek Szykuła category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-08 summary:We present an initial version of Regular Boardgames general game description language. This stands as an extension of Simplified Boardgames language. Our language is designed to be able to express the rules of a majority of popular boardgames including the complex rules such as promotions, castling, en passant, jump captures, liberty captures, and obligatory moves. The language describes all the above through one consistent general mechanism based on regular expressions, without using exceptions or ad hoc rules. version:1
arxiv-1702-04024 | Occupy the Cloud: Distributed Computing for the 99% | http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.04024 | id:1702.04024 author:Eric Jonas, Qifan Pu, Shivaram Venkataraman, Ion Stoica, Benjamin Recht category:cs.DC  published:2017-02-13 summary:Distributed computing remains inaccessible to a large number of users, in spite of many open source platforms and extensive commercial offerings. While distributed computation frameworks have moved beyond a simple map-reduce model, many users are still left to struggle with complex cluster management and configuration tools, even for running simple embarrassingly parallel jobs. We argue that stateless functions represent a viable platform for these users, eliminating cluster management overhead, fulfilling the promise of elasticity. Furthermore, using our prototype implementation, PyWren, we show that this model is general enough to implement a number of distributed computing models, such as BSP, efficiently. Extrapolating from recent trends in network bandwidth and the advent of disaggregated storage, we suggest that stateless functions are a natural fit for data processing in future computing environments. version:2
arxiv-1706-02344 | Energy-Efficient Hybrid Stochastic-Binary Neural Networks for Near-Sensor Computing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02344 | id:1706.02344 author:Vincent T. Lee, Armin Alaghi, John P. Hayes, Visvesh Sathe, Luis Ceze category:cs.AR  published:2017-06-07 summary:Recent advances in neural networks (NNs) exhibit unprecedented success at transforming large, unstructured data streams into compact higher-level semantic information for tasks such as handwriting recognition, image classification, and speech recognition. Ideally, systems would employ near-sensor computation to execute these tasks at sensor endpoints to maximize data reduction and minimize data movement. However, near- sensor computing presents its own set of challenges such as operating power constraints, energy budgets, and communication bandwidth capacities. In this paper, we propose a stochastic- binary hybrid design which splits the computation between the stochastic and binary domains for near-sensor NN applications. In addition, our design uses a new stochastic adder and multiplier that are significantly more accurate than existing adders and multipliers. We also show that retraining the binary portion of the NN computation can compensate for precision losses introduced by shorter stochastic bit-streams, allowing faster run times at minimal accuracy losses. Our evaluation shows that our hybrid stochastic-binary design can achieve 9.8x energy efficiency savings, and application-level accuracies within 0.05% compared to conventional all-binary designs. version:1
arxiv-1608-03175 | Similarity Search on Automata Processors | http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.03175 | id:1608.03175 author:Vincent T. Lee, Justin Kotalik, Carlo C. Del Mundo, Armin Alaghi, Luis Ceze, Mark Oskin category:cs.DC  published:2016-08-09 summary:Similarity search is a critical primitive for a wide variety of applications including natural language processing, content-based search, machine learning, computer vision, databases, robotics, and recommendation systems. At its core, similarity search is implemented using the k-nearest neighbors (kNN) algorithm, where computation consists of highly parallel distance calculations and a global top-k sort. In contemporary von-Neumann architectures, kNN is bottlenecked by data movement which limits throughput and latency. In this paper, we present and evaluate a novel automata-based algorithm for kNN on the Micron Automata Processor (AP), which is a non-von Neumann near-data processing architecture. By employing near-data processing, the AP minimizes the data movement bottleneck and is able to achieve better performance. Unlike prior work in the automata processing space, our work combines temporal encodings with automata design to augment the space of applications for the AP. We evaluate our design's performance on the AP and compare to state-of-the-art CPU, GPU, and FPGA implementations; we show that the current generation of AP hardware can achieve over 50x speedup over CPUs while maintaining competitive energy efficiency gains. We also propose several automata optimization techniques and simple architectural extensions that highlight the potential of the AP hardware. version:2
arxiv-1706-02897 | Bandit Models of Human Behavior: Reward Processing in Mental Disorders | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02897 | id:1706.02897 author:Djallel Bouneffouf, Irina Rish, Guillermo A. Cecchi category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-07 summary:Drawing an inspiration from behavioral studies of human decision making, we propose here a general parametric framework for multi-armed bandit problem, which extends the standard Thompson Sampling approach to incorporate reward processing biases associated with several neurological and psychiatric conditions, including Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), addiction, and chronic pain. We demonstrate empirically that the proposed parametric approach can often outperform the baseline Thompson Sampling on a variety of datasets. Moreover, from the behavioral modeling perspective, our parametric framework can be viewed as a first step towards a unifying computational model capturing reward processing abnormalities across multiple mental conditions. version:1
arxiv-1706-02246 | Stochastic Global Optimization Algorithms: A Systematic Formal Approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02246 | id:1706.02246 author:Jonatan Gomez category:cs.AI math.OC G.1.6  published:2017-06-07 summary:As we know, some global optimization problems cannot be solved using analytic methods, so numeric/algorithmic approaches are used to find near to the optimal solutions for them. A stochastic global optimization algorithm (SGoal) is an iterative algorithm that generates a new population (a set of candidate solutions) from a previous population using stochastic operations. Although some research works have formalized SGoals using Markov kernels, such formalization is not general and sometimes is blurred. In this paper, we propose a comprehensive and systematic formal approach for studying SGoals. First, we present the required theory of probability (\sigma-algebras, measurable functions, kernel, markov chain, products, convergence and so on) and prove that some algorithmic functions like swapping and projection can be represented by kernels. Then, we introduce the notion of join-kernel as a way of characterizing the combination of stochastic methods. Next, we define the optimization space, a formal structure (a set with a \sigma-algebra that contains strict \epsilon-optimal states) for studying SGoals, and we develop kernels, like sort and permutation, on such structure. Finally, we present some popular SGoals in terms of the developed theory, we introduce sufficient conditions for convergence of a SGoal, and we prove convergence of some popular SGoals. version:1
arxiv-1706-02245 | Distributed Simultaneous Action and Target Assignment for Multi-Robot Multi-Target Tracking | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02245 | id:1706.02245 author:Yoonchang Sung, Ashish Kumar Budhiraja, Ryan K. Williams, Pratap Tokekar category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-07 summary:We study a multi-robot assignment problem for multi-target tracking. The proposed problem can be viewed as the mixed packing and covering problem. To deal with a limitation on both sensing and communication ranges, a distributed approach is taken into consideration. A local algorithm gives theoretical bounds on both the running time and approximation ratio to an optimal solution. We employ a local algorithm of max-min linear programs to solve the proposed task. Simulation result shows that a local algorithm is an effective solution to the multi-robot task allocation. version:1
arxiv-1510-06358 | Rambrain - a library for virtually extending physical memory | http://arxiv.org/abs/1510.06358 | id:1510.06358 author:Maximilian Imgrund, Alexander Arth category:cs.DC  published:2015-10-19 summary:We introduce Rambrain, a user space library that manages memory consumption of your code. Using Rambrain you can overcommit memory over the size of physical memory present in the system. Rambrain takes care of temporarily swapping out data to disk and can handle multiples of the physical memory size present. Rambrain is thread-safe, OpenMP and MPI compatible and supports Asynchronous IO. The library was designed to require minimal changes to existing programs and to be easy to use. version:2
arxiv-1701-06420 | Neurostream: Scalable and Energy Efficient Deep Learning with Smart Memory Cubes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.06420 | id:1701.06420 author:Erfan Azarkhish, Davide Rossi, Igor Loi, Luca Benini category:cs.AR cs.ET  published:2017-01-23 summary:High-performance computing systems are moving toward 2.5D memory hierarchies, based on High-bandwidth memory (HBM) and Hybrid Memory Cube (HMC) to mitigate the main memory bottlenecks. This trend is also creating new opportunities to revisit near-memory computation. In this paper, we propose a flexible processor-in-memory (PIM) solution for scalable and energy-efficient execution of deep convolutional networks (ConvNets), one of the fastest-growing workloads for servers and high-end embedded systems. Our co-design approach consists of a network of Smart Memory Cubes (modular extensions to the standard HMC) each augmented with a manycore PIM platform called NeuroCluster. NeuroClusters have a modular design based on NeuroStream co-processors (for Convolution-intensive computations) and general-purpose RISCV cores. In addition, a DRAM-friendly tiling mechanism and a scalable computation paradigm are presented to efficiently harness this computational capability with a very low programming effort. NeuroCluster occupies only 8% of the total logic-base (LoB) die area in a standard HMC and achieves an average performance of 240 GFLOPS for complete execution of full-featured state-of-the-art (SoA) ConvNets within a power budget of 2.5 W. Overall 11 W is consumed in a single SMC device, with 22.5 GFLOPS/W energy-efficiency which is 3.5X better than the best GPU implementations in similar technologies. The minor increase in system-level power and the negligible area increase make our PIM system a cost-effective and energy efficient solution, easily scalable to 955 GFLOPS with a small network of just four SMCs. version:2
arxiv-1706-05076 | Development of a passive Rehabilitation Robot for the wrist joint through the implementation of an Arduino UNO microcontroller | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05076 | id:1706.05076 author:E Ceballos, M Díaz-Rodriguez, P Paredes, P Vargas category:cs.RO physics.med-ph  published:2017-06-07 summary:In this research was implemented the use of an Arduino UNO R3 microcontroller to control the movements of a prototype robotic functional developed to perform rehabilitation exercises in the wrist joint; This device can be used to assist the physiatrist to rehabilitate the tendinitis, synovitis, rheumatoid arthritis and for pre-operative and post-operative therapy in this joint. During the design stage of the functional prototype, the methodology of the industrial design process was used from a concurrent engineering approach, through which anthropometric studies could be performed related to the dimensions and angles of movement of the wrist joint in the population Venezuelan from the information collected, the design proposal was elaborated, and the use of CAD programs defined the different forms, geometries and materials of the components of the rehabilitation device, which were later analyzed using the finite element method for the determination The tensional state of efforts and safety factors through the use of CAE programs. In addition, a software was developed for the acquisition, registration, reproduction and execution of the different movements produced during the rehabilitation therapy. Through the research developed, a device was designed that will help the rehabilitation of the wrist joint allowing the combination of dorsal-palmar flexion and ulnar-radial movements to recover the joint function of various pathologies presented in the Venezuelan population. version:1
arxiv-1706-02209 | Improving Max-Sum through Decimation to Solve Loopy Distributed Constraint Optimization Problems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02209 | id:1706.02209 author:Jesús Cerquides, Rémi Emonet, Gauthier Picard, Juan A. Rodríguez-Aguilar category:cs.MA cs.AI  published:2017-06-07 summary:In the context of solving large distributed constraint optimization problems (DCOP), belief-propagation and approximate inference algorithms are candidates of choice. However, in general, when the factor graph is very loopy (i.e. cyclic), these solution methods suffer from bad performance, due to non-convergence and many exchanged messages. As to improve performances of the Max-Sum inference algorithm when solving loopy constraint optimization problems, we propose here to take inspiration from the belief-propagation-guided dec-imation used to solve sparse random graphs (k-satisfiability). We propose the novel DeciMaxSum method, which is parameterized in terms of policies to decide when to trigger decimation, which variables to decimate, and which values to assign to decimated variables. Based on an empirical evaluation on a classical BP benchmark (the Ising model), some of these combinations of policies exhibit better performance than state-of-the-art competitors. version:1
arxiv-1706-02109 | Guided Interaction Exploration in Artifact-centric Process Models | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02109 | id:1706.02109 author:Maikel L. van Eck, Natalia Sidorova, Wil M. P. van der Aalst category:cs.DB cs.AI  published:2017-06-07 summary:Artifact-centric process models aim to describe complex processes as a collection of interacting artifacts. Recent development in process mining allow for the discovery of such models. However, the focus is often on the representation of the individual artifacts rather than their interactions. Based on event data we can automatically discover composite state machines representing artifact-centric processes. Moreover, we provide ways of visualizing and quantifying interactions among different artifacts. For example, we are able to highlight strongly correlated behaviours in different artifacts. The approach has been fully implemented as a ProM plug-in; the CSM Miner provides an interactive artifact-centric process discovery tool focussing on interactions. The approach has been evaluated using real life data sets, including the personal loan and overdraft process of a Dutch financial institution. version:1
arxiv-1706-02048 | Epistemic Logic with Functional Dependency Operator | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02048 | id:1706.02048 author:Yifeng Ding category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-07 summary:Epistemic logic with non-standard knowledge operators, especially the "knowing-value" operator, has recently gathered much attention. With the "knowing-value" operator, we can express knowledge of individual variables, but not of the relations between them in general. In this paper, we propose a new operator Kf to express knowledge of the functional dependencies between variables. The semantics of this Kf operator uses a function domain which imposes a constraint on what counts as a functional dependency relation. By adjusting this function domain, different interesting logics arise, and in this paper we axiomatize three such logics in a single agent setting. Then we show how these three logics can be unified by allowing the function domain to vary relative to different agents and possible worlds. A multiagent axiomatization is given in this case. version:1
arxiv-1706-05075 | Joint Extraction of Entities and Relations Based on a Novel Tagging Scheme | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05075 | id:1706.05075 author:Suncong Zheng, Feng Wang, Hongyun Bao, Yuexing Hao, Peng Zhou, Bo Xu category:cs.CL cs.AI cs.LG  published:2017-06-07 summary:Joint extraction of entities and relations is an important task in information extraction. To tackle this problem, we firstly propose a novel tagging scheme that can convert the joint extraction task to a tagging problem. Then, based on our tagging scheme, we study different end-to-end models to extract entities and their relations directly, without identifying entities and relations separately. We conduct experiments on a public dataset produced by distant supervision method and the experimental results show that the tagging based methods are better than most of the existing pipelined and joint learning methods. What's more, the end-to-end model proposed in this paper, achieves the best results on the public dataset. version:1
arxiv-1703-03916 | Axioms in Model-based Planners | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.03916 | id:1703.03916 author:Shuwa Miura, Alex Fukunaga category:cs.AI  published:2017-03-11 summary:Axioms can be used to model derived predicates in domain- independent planning models. Formulating models which use axioms can sometimes result in problems with much smaller search spaces and shorter plans than the original model. Previous work on axiom-aware planners focused solely on state- space search planners. We propose axiom-aware planners based on answer set programming and integer programming. We evaluate them on PDDL domains with axioms and show that they can exploit additional expressivity of axioms. version:2
arxiv-1706-02023 | Autonomous Sweet Pepper Harvesting for Protected Cropping Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02023 | id:1706.02023 author:Chris Lehnert, Andrew English, Chris McCool, Adam Tow, Tristan Perez category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-07 summary:In this letter, we present a new robotic harvester (Harvey) that can autonomously harvest sweet pepper in protected cropping environments. Our approach combines effective vision algorithms with a novel end-effector design to enable successful harvesting of sweet peppers. Initial field trials in protected cropping environments, with two cultivar, demonstrate the efficacy of this approach achieving a 46% success rate for unmodified crop, and 58% for modified crop. Furthermore, for the more favourable cultivar we were also able to detach 90% of sweet peppers, indicating that improvements in the grasping success rate would result in greatly improved harvesting performance. version:1
arxiv-1706-01574 | Extracting Hierarchies of Search Tasks & Subtasks via a Bayesian Nonparametric Approach | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01574 | id:1706.01574 author:Rishabh Mehrotra, Emine Yilmaz category:cs.IR cs.AI  published:2017-06-06 summary:A significant amount of search queries originate from some real world information need or tasks. In order to improve the search experience of the end users, it is important to have accurate representations of tasks. As a result, significant amount of research has been devoted to extracting proper representations of tasks in order to enable search systems to help users complete their tasks, as well as providing the end user with better query suggestions, for better recommendations, for satisfaction prediction, and for improved personalization in terms of tasks. Most existing task extraction methodologies focus on representing tasks as flat structures. However, tasks often tend to have multiple subtasks associated with them and a more naturalistic representation of tasks would be in terms of a hierarchy, where each task can be composed of multiple (sub)tasks. To this end, we propose an efficient Bayesian nonparametric model for extracting hierarchies of such tasks \& subtasks. We evaluate our method based on real world query log data both through quantitative and crowdsourced experiments and highlight the importance of considering task/subtask hierarchies. version:2
arxiv-1706-02557 | Study of Vital Data Analysis Platform Using Wearable Sensor | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02557 | id:1706.02557 author:Yoji Yamato category:cs.DC cs.CY  published:2017-06-06 summary:In this paper, we propose a vital data analysis platform which resolves existing problems to utilize vital data for real-time actions. Recently, IoT technologies have been progressed but in the healthcare area, real-time actions based on analyzed vital data are not considered sufficiently yet. The causes are proper use of analyzing methods of stream / micro batch processing and network cost. To resolve existing problems, we propose our vital data analysis platform. Our platform collects vital data of Electrocardiograph and acceleration using an example of wearable vital sensor and analyzes them to extract posture, fatigue and relaxation in smart phones or cloud. Our platform can show analyzed dangerous posture or fatigue level change. We implemented the platform and we are now preparing a field test. version:1
arxiv-1706-01977 | From the Lab to the Desert: Fast Prototyping and Learning of Robot Locomotion | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01977 | id:1706.01977 author:Kevin Sebastian Luck, Joseph Campbell, Michael Andrew Jansen, Daniel M. Aukes, Heni Ben Amor category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-06 summary:We present a methodology for fast prototyping of morphologies and controllers for robot locomotion. Going beyond simulation-based approaches, we argue that the form and function of a robot, as well as their interplay with real-world environmental conditions are critical. Hence, fast design and learning cycles are necessary to adapt robot shape and behavior to their environment. To this end, we present a combination of laminate robot manufacturing and sample-efficient reinforcement learning. We leverage this methodology to conduct an extensive robot learning experiment. Inspired by locomotion in sea turtles, we design a low-cost crawling robot with variable, interchangeable fins. Learning is performed using both bio-inspired and original fin designs in an artificial indoor environment as well as a natural environment in the Arizona desert. The findings of this study show that static policies developed in the laboratory do not translate to effective locomotion strategies in natural environments. In contrast to that, sample-efficient reinforcement learning can help to rapidly accommodate changes in the environment or the robot. version:1
arxiv-1706-01966 | Controlling a Robotic Stereo Camera Under Image Quantization Noise | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01966 | id:1706.01966 author:Charles Freundlich, Yan Zhang, Alex Zihao Zhu, Philippos Mordohai, Michael M. Zavlanos category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-06 summary:In this paper, we address the problem of controlling a mobile stereo camera under image quantization noise. Assuming that a pair of images of a set of targets is available, the camera moves through a sequence of Next-Best-Views (NBVs), i.e., a sequence of views that minimize the trace of the targets' cumulative state covariance, constructed using a realistic model of the stereo rig that captures image quantization noise and a Kalman Filter (KF) that fuses the observation history with new information. The proposed controller decomposes control of the NBVs from motion control of the camera in the camera and world frames, respectively. This decomposition allows the camera to realize the goal NBVs while satisfying Field-of-View constraints, a task that is particularly challenging using complex sensing models. We provide simulations and real experiments that illustrate the ability of the proposed mobile camera system to accurately localize sets of targets. We also propose a novel data-driven technique to characterize unmodeled uncertainty, such as calibration errors, at the pixel level and show that this method ensures stability of the KF. version:1
arxiv-1702-05262 | LHCb trigger streams optimization | http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.05262 | id:1702.05262 author:D. Derkach, N. Kazeev, R. Neychev, A. Panin, I. Trofimov, A. Ustyuzhanin, M. Vesterinen category:cs.DC hep-ex  published:2017-02-17 summary:The LHCb experiment stores around $10^{11}$ collision events per year. A typical physics analysis deals with a final sample of up to $10^7$ events. Event preselection algorithms (lines) are used for data reduction. Since the data are stored in a format that requires sequential access, the lines are grouped into several output file streams, in order to increase the efficiency of user analysis jobs that read these data. The scheme efficiency heavily depends on the stream composition. By putting similar lines together and balancing the stream sizes it is possible to reduce the overhead. We present a method for finding an optimal stream composition. The method is applied to a part of the LHCb data (Turbo stream) on the stage where it is prepared for user physics analysis. This results in an expected improvement of 15% in the speed of user analysis jobs, and will be applied on data to be recorded in 2017. version:2
arxiv-1706-01918 | Distributed Hierarchical Control for State Estimation With Robotic Sensor Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01918 | id:1706.01918 author:Charles Freundlich, Yan Zhang, Michael M. Zavlanos category:cs.RO cs.MA  published:2017-06-06 summary:This paper addresses active state estimation with a team of robotic sensors. The states to be estimated are represented by spatially distributed, uncorrelated, stationary vectors. Given a prior belief on the geographic locations of the states, we cluster the states in moderately sized groups and propose a new hierarchical Dynamic Programming (DP) framework to compute optimal sensing policies for each cluster that mitigates the computational cost of planning optimal policies in the combined belief space. Then, we develop a decentralized assignment algorithm that dynamically allocates clusters to robots based on the pre-computed optimal policies at each cluster. The integrated distributed state estimation framework is optimal at the cluster level but also scales very well to large numbers of states and robot sensors. We demonstrate efficiency of the proposed method in both simulations and real-world experiments using stereoscopic vision sensors. version:1
arxiv-1706-02162 | Steering a Particle Swarm Using Global Inputs and Swarm Statistics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02162 | id:1706.02162 author:Shiva Shahrokhi, Lillian Lin, Chris Ertel, Mable Wan, Aaron T. Becker category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-06 summary:Microrobotics has the potential to revolutionize many applications including targeted material delivery, assembly, and surgery. The same properties that promise breakthrough solutions---small size and large populations---present unique challenges for controlling motion. Robotic manipulation usually assumes intelligent agents, not particle systems manipulated by a global signal. To identify the key parameters for particle manipulation, we used a collection of online games where players steer swarms of up to 500 particles to complete manipulation challenges. We recorded statistics from over ten thousand players. Inspired by techniques where human operators performed well, we investigate controllers that use only the mean and variance of the swarm. We prove the mean position is controllable and provide conditions under which variance is controllable. We next derive automatic controllers for these and a hysteresis-based switching control to regulate the first two moments of the particle distribution. Finally, we employ these controllers as primitives for an object manipulation task and implement all controllers on 100 kilobots controlled by the direction of a global light source. version:1
arxiv-1706-01762 | Specifying Transaction Control to Serialize Concurrent Program Executions | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01762 | id:1706.01762 author:Egon Börger, Klaus-Dieter Schewe category:cs.DB cs.DC cs.SE 68P15  68Q60  68Q85  published:2017-06-06 summary:We define a programming language independent transaction controller and an operator which when applied to concurrent programs with shared locations turns their behavior with respect to some abstract termination criterion into a transactional behavior. We prove the correctness property that concurrent runs under the transaction controller are serialisable. We specify the transaction controller TaCtl and the operator TA in terms of Abstract State Machines. This makes TaCtl applicable to a wide range of programs and in particular provides the possibility to use it as a plug-in when specifying concurrent system components in terms of Abstract State Machines. version:1
arxiv-1706-01730 | Blockchain based trust & authentication for decentralized sensor networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01730 | id:1706.01730 author:Axel Moinet, Benoît Darties, Jean-Luc Baril category:cs.CR cs.DC  published:2017-06-06 summary:Sensor networks and Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) are key components for the development of the Internet of Things. These networks are subject of two kinds of constraints. Adaptability by the mean of mutability and evolutivity, and constrained node resources such as energy consumption, computational complexity or memory usage. In this context, none of the existing protocols and models allows reliable peer authentication and trust level management. In the field of virtual economic transactions, Bitcoin has proposed a new decentralized and evolutive way to model and acknowledge trust and data validity in a peer network by the mean of the blockchain. We propose a new security model and its protocol based on the blockchain technology to ensure validity and integrity of cryptographic authentication data and associate peer trust level, from the beginning to the end of the sensor network lifetime. version:1
arxiv-1706-01657 | Symbolic Multibody Methods for Real-Time Simulation of Railway Vehicles | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01657 | id:1706.01657 author:Javier Ros, Aitor Plaza, Xabier Iriarte, Jesús María Pintor category:cs.RO cs.SC 70E55  70E18  published:2017-06-06 summary:In this work, recently developed state-of-the-art symbolic multibody methods are tested to accurately model a complex railway vehicle. The model is generated using a symbolic implementation of the principle of the virtual power. Creep forces are modeled using a direct symbolic implementation of the standard linear Kalker model. No simplifications, as base parameter reduction, partial-linearization or look-up tables for contact kinematics, are used. An Implicit-Explicit integration scheme is proposed to efficiently deal with the stiff creep dynamics. Hard real-time performance is achieved: the CPU time required for a very stable 1 ms integration time step is 256 {\mu}s. version:1
arxiv-1607-05178 | Towards Designing Cost-Optimal Policies to Utilize IaaS Clouds under Online Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1607.05178 | id:1607.05178 author:Xiaohu Wu, Patrick Loiseau, Esa Hyytia category:cs.DC  published:2016-07-18 summary:Cloud vendors such as Amazon EC2 offer two types of purchase options: on-demand and spot instances. An important problem for all users is to determine the way of utilizing different purchase options so as to minimize the cost of processing all incoming jobs while respecting their response-time targets. To be cost-optimal, the process under which users utilize self-owned and cloud instances to process each job (e.g., the order of utilizing them, when to update the allocation of them) is defined in advance by the ways that users are charged, and, to configure the process, we need to determine the optimal amounts of various instances at each allocation update of a job. In this paper, we uncover what parameters are dominating the minimum cost of utilizing various instances and propose (near-)optimal functions of parameters to determine the amounts of different instances allocated to a job. Although these parameters are unknown due to the cloud market dynamics, we can apply the technique of online learning to learn them. Compared with some existing or intuitive policies to utilize self-owned and cloud instances, simulations are done to show a cost reduction by up to 62.85% when spot and on-demand instances are considered and by up to 44.00% when self-owned instances are considered. version:5
arxiv-1706-01631 | A Flexible Modeling Approach for Robust Multi-Lane Road Estimation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01631 | id:1706.01631 author:Alexey Abramov, Christopher Bayer, Claudio Heller, Claudia Loy category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-06 summary:A robust estimation of road course and traffic lanes is an essential part of environment perception for next generations of Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and development of self-driving vehicles. In this paper, a flexible method for modeling multiple lanes in a vehicle in real time is presented. Information about traffic lanes, derived by cameras and other environmental sensors, that is represented as features, serves as input for an iterative expectation-maximization method to estimate a lane model. The generic and modular concept of the approach allows to freely choose the mathematical functions for the geometrical description of lanes. In addition to the current measurement data, the previously estimated result as well as additional constraints to reflect parallelism and continuity of traffic lanes, are considered in the optimization process. As evaluation of the lane estimation method, its performance is showcased using cubic splines for the geometric representation of lanes in simulated scenarios and measurements recorded using a development vehicle. In a comparison to ground truth data, robustness and precision of the lanes estimated up to a distance of 120 m are demonstrated. As a part of the environmental modeling, the presented method can be utilized for longitudinal and lateral control of autonomous vehicles. version:1
arxiv-1706-01603 | Model-Based Active Source Identification in Complex Environments | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01603 | id:1706.01603 author:Reza Khodayi-mehr, Wilkins Aquino, Michael M. Zavlanos category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-06 summary:In this paper we consider the problem of Active Source Identification (ASI) in steady-state Advection-Diffusion (AD) transport systems. Specifically, given a set of noisy concentration measurements, we formulate the Source Identification (SI) problem as a PDE-constrained optimization in function space. To obtain a tractable numerical solution, we employ Proper Orthogonal Decomposition to approximate the concentration field by a low dimensional subspace. We also model the unknown source field using nonlinear basis functions, which decreases the number of unknowns drastically. We use point-source Sensitivity Analysis of the SI objective function to initialize the resulting nonlinear optimization problem. To collect the required measurements, we control a mobile robot sensor through a sequence of waypoints that maximize the minimum-eigenvalue of the Fisher Information Matrix of the unknown source parameters. We formulate the path planning problem as a nonlinear Semi-Definite Program (SDP) and solve it iteratively using sequential SDP. We present numerical experiments that show that the ASI algorithm can efficiently identify sources in complex AD systems that live in non-convex domains. version:1
arxiv-1706-01576 | Distributed Active State Estimation with User-Specified Accuracy | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01576 | id:1706.01576 author:Charles Freundlich, Soomin Lee, Michael M. Zavlanos category:cs.RO cs.MA  published:2017-06-06 summary:In this paper, we address the problem of controlling a network of mobile sensors so that a set of hidden states are estimated up to a user-specified accuracy. The sensors take measurements and fuse them online using an Information Consensus Filter (ICF). At the same time, the local estimates guide the sensors to their next best configuration. This leads to an LMI-constrained optimization problem that we solve by means of a new distributed random approximate projections method. The new method is robust to the state disagreement errors that exist among the robots as the ICF fuses the collected measurements. Assuming that the noise corrupting the measurements is zero-mean and Gaussian and that the robots are self localized in the environment, the integrated system converges to the next best positions from where new observations will be taken. This process is repeated with the robots taking a sequence of observations until the hidden states are estimated up to the desired user-specified accuracy. We present simulations of sparse landmark localization, where the robotic team achieves the desired estimation tolerances while exhibiting interesting emergent behavior. version:1
arxiv-1610-02627 | Learning Deep Generative Spatial Models for Mobile Robots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1610.02627 | id:1610.02627 author:Andrzej Pronobis, Rajesh P. N. Rao category:cs.RO  published:2016-10-09 summary:We propose a new probabilistic framework that allows mobile robots to autonomously learn deep generative models of their environments that span multiple levels of abstraction. Unlike traditional approaches that integrate engineered models for low-level features, geometry, and semantic information, our approach leverages recent advances in Sum-Product Networks (SPNs) and deep learning to learn a generative model of a robot's spatial environment, from low-level input to semantic interpretations. Our model is capable of solving a wide range of tasks from semantic classification of places, uncertainty estimation and novelty detection to generation of place appearances based on semantic information and prediction of missing data in partial observations. Experiments on laser range data from a mobile robot show that the proposed single universal model obtains accuracy or efficiency superior to models fine-tuned to specific sub-problems, such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) or SVMs. version:2
arxiv-1706-01443 | Types of Cognition and its Implications for future High-Level Cognitive Machines | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01443 | id:1706.01443 author:Camilo Miguel Signorelli category:cs.AI q-bio.NC  published:2017-06-05 summary:This work summarizes part of current knowledge on High-level Cognitive process and its relation with biological hardware. Thus, it is possible to identify some paradoxes which could impact the development of future technologies and artificial intelligence: we may make a High-level Cognitive Machine, sacrificing the principal attribute of a machine, its accuracy. version:1
arxiv-1706-01417 | A method for the online construction of the set of states of a Markov Decision Process using Answer Set Programming | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01417 | id:1706.01417 author:Leonardo A. Ferreira, Reinaldo A. C. Bianchi, Paulo E. Santos, Ramon Lopez de Mantaras category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-05 summary:Non-stationary domains, that change in unpredicted ways, are a challenge for agents searching for optimal policies in sequential decision-making problems. This paper presents a combination of Markov Decision Processes (MDP) with Answer Set Programming (ASP), named {\em Online ASP for MDP} (oASP(MDP)), which is a method capable of constructing the set of domain states while the agent interacts with a changing environment. oASP(MDP) updates previously obtained policies, learnt by means of Reinforcement Learning (RL), using rules that represent the domain changes observed by the agent. These rules represent a set of domain constraints that are processed as ASP programs reducing the search space. Results show that oASP(MDP) is capable of finding solutions for problems in non-stationary domains without interfering with the action-value function approximation process. version:1
arxiv-1706-01384 | Time-Varying Formation Controllers for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Using Deep Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01384 | id:1706.01384 author:Ronny Conde, José Ramón Llata, Carlos Torre-Ferrero category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-05 summary:We consider the problem of designing scalable and portable controllers for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to reach time-varying formations as quickly as possible. This brief confirms that deep reinforcement learning can be used in a multi-agent fashion to drive UAVs to reach any formation while taking into account optimality and portability. We use a deep neural network to estimate how good a state is, so the agent can choose actions accordingly. The system is tested with different non-high-dimensional sensory inputs without any change in the neural network architecture, algorithm or hyperparameters, just with additional training. version:1
arxiv-1701-05403 | Privacy Preserving Stream Analytics: The Marriage of Randomized Response and Approximate Computing | http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.05403 | id:1701.05403 author:Do Le Quoc, Martin Beck, Pramod Bhatotia, Ruichuan Chen, Christof Fetzer, Thorsten Strufe category:cs.DC cs.CR  published:2017-01-19 summary:How to preserve users' privacy while supporting high-utility analytics for low-latency stream processing? To answer this question: we describe the design, implementation, and evaluation of PRIVAPPROX, a data analytics system for privacy-preserving stream processing. PRIVAPPROX provides three properties: (i) Privacy: zero-knowledge privacy guarantees for users, a privacy bound tighter than the state-of-the-art differential privacy; (ii) Utility: an interface for data analysts to systematically explore the trade-offs between the output accuracy (with error-estimation) and query execution budget; (iii) Latency: near real-time stream processing based on a scalable "synchronization-free" distributed architecture. The key idea behind our approach is to marry two existing techniques together: namely, sampling (used in the context of approximate computing) and randomized response (used in the context of privacy-preserving analytics). The resulting marriage is complementary - it achieves stronger privacy guarantees and also improves performance, a necessary ingredient for achieving low-latency stream analytics. version:5
arxiv-1706-01320 | 3D Pathfinding and Collision Avoidance Using Uneven Search-space Quantization and Visual Cone Search | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01320 | id:1706.01320 author:Diptangshu Pandit category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-05 summary:Pathfinding is a very popular area in computer game development. While two-dimensional (2D) pathfinding is widely applied in most of the popular game engines, little implementation of real three-dimensional (3D) pathfinding can be found. This research presents a dynamic search space optimization algorithm which can be applied to tessellate 3D search space unevenly, significantly reducing the total number of resulting nodes. The algorithm can be used with popular pathfinding algorithms in 3D game engines. Furthermore, a simplified standalone 3D pathfinding algorithm is proposed in this paper. The proposed algorithm relies on ray-casting or line vision to generate a feasible path during runtime without requiring division of the search space into a 3D grid. Both of the proposed algorithms are simulated on Unreal Engine to show innerworkings and resultant path comparison with A*. The advantages and shortcomings of the proposed algorithms are also discussed along with future directions. version:1
arxiv-1509-04085 | Project Beehive: A Hardware/Software Co-designed Stack for Runtime and Architectural Research | http://arxiv.org/abs/1509.04085 | id:1509.04085 author:Christos Kotselidis, Andrey Rodchenko, Colin Barrett, Andy Nisbet, John Mawer, Will Toms, James Clarkson, Cosmin Gorgovan, Amanieu d'Antras, Yaman Cakmakci, Thanos Stratikopoulos, Sebastian Werner, Jim Garside, Javier Navaridas, Antoniu Pop, John Goodacre, Mikel Lujan category:cs.DC  published:2015-09-14 summary:The end of Dennard scaling combined with stagnation in architectural and compiler optimizations makes it challenging to achieve significant performance deltas. Solutions based solely in hardware or software are no longer sufficient to maintain the pace of improvements seen during the past few decades. In hardware, the end of single-core scaling resulted in the proliferation of multi-core system architectures, however this has forced complex parallel programming techniques into the mainstream. To further exploit physical resources, systems are becoming increasingly heterogeneous with specialized computing elements and accelerators. Programming across a range of disparate architectures requires a new level of abstraction that programming languages will have to adapt to. In software, emerging complex applications, from domains such as Big Data and computer vision, run on multi-layered software stacks targeting hardware with a variety of constraints and resources. Hence, optimizing for the power-performance (and resiliency) space requires experimentation platforms that offer quick and easy prototyping of hardware/software co-designed techniques. To that end, we present Project Beehive: A Hardware/Software co-designed stack for runtime and architectural research. Project Beehive utilizes various state-of-the-art software and hardware components along with novel and extensible co-design techniques. The objective of Project Beehive is to provide a modern platform for experimentation on emerging applications, programming languages, compilers, runtimes, and low-power heterogeneous many-core architectures in a full-system co-designed manner. version:3
arxiv-1705-01292 | A General Safety Framework for Learning-Based Control in Uncertain Robotic Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.01292 | id:1705.01292 author:Jaime F. Fisac, Anayo K. Akametalu, Melanie N. Zeilinger, Shahab Kaynama, Jeremy Gillula, Claire J. Tomlin category:cs.RO cs.SY I.2.9; I.2.8; I.2.6  published:2017-05-03 summary:The proven efficacy of learning-based control schemes strongly motivates their application to robotic systems operating in the physical world. However, guaranteeing correct operation during the learning process is currently an unresolved issue, which is of vital importance in safety-critical systems. We propose a general safety framework based on Hamilton-Jacobi reachability methods that can work in conjunction with an arbitrary learning algorithm. The method exploits approximate knowledge of the system dynamics to guarantee constraint satisfaction while minimally interfering with the learning process. We further introduce a Bayesian mechanism that refines the safety analysis as the system acquires new evidence, reducing initial conservativeness when appropriate while strengthening guarantees through real-time validation. The result is a least-restrictive, safety-preserving control law that intervenes only when (a) the computed safety guarantees require it, or (b) confidence in the computed guarantees decays in light of new observations. We prove theoretical safety guarantees combining probabilistic and worst-case analysis and demonstrate the proposed framework experimentally on a quadrotor vehicle. Even though safety analysis is based on a simple point-mass model, the quadrotor successfully arrives at a suitable controller by policy-gradient reinforcement learning without ever crashing, and safely retracts away from a strong external disturbance introduced during flight. version:2
arxiv-1608-04837 | Intention-Aware Motion Planning Using Learning Based Human Motion Prediction | http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.04837 | id:1608.04837 author:Jae Sung Park, Chonhyon Park, Dinesh Manocha category:cs.RO  published:2016-08-17 summary:We present a motion planning algorithm to compute collision-free and smooth trajectories for high-DOF robots interacting with humans in a shared workspace. Our approach uses offline learning of human actions along with temporal coherence to predict the human actions. Our intention-aware online planning algorithm uses the learned database to compute a reliable trajectory based on the predicted actions. We represent the predicted human motion using a Gaussian distribution and compute tight upper bounds on collision probabilities for safe motion planning. We highlight the performance of our planning algorithm in complex simulated scenarios and real world benchmarks with 7-DOF robot arms operating in a workspace with a human performing complex tasks. We demonstrate the benefits of our intention-aware planner in terms of computing safe trajectories in such uncertain environments. version:3
arxiv-1706-01133 | An ROS-based Shared Communication Middleware for Plug & Play Modular Intelligent Design of Smart Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01133 | id:1706.01133 author:Tathagata Chakraborti, Siddharth Srivastava, Alessandro Pinto, Subbarao Kambhampati category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-04 summary:Centralized architectures for systems such as smart offices and homes are rapidly becoming obsolete due to inherent inflexibility in their design and management. This is because such systems should not only be easily re-configurable with the addition of newer capabilities over time but should also have the ability to adapt to multiple points of failure. Fully harnessing the capabilities of these massively integrated systems requires higher level reasoning engines that allow them to plan for and achieve diverse long-term goals, rather than being limited to a few predefined tasks. In this paper, we propose a set of properties that will accommodate such capabilities, and develop a general architecture for integrating automated planning components into smart systems. We show how the reasoning capabilities are embedded in the design and operation of the system and demonstrate the same on a real-world implementation of a smart office. version:1
arxiv-1706-01127 | Virtual Constraints and Hybrid Zero Dynamics for Realizing Underactuated Bipedal Locomotion | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01127 | id:1706.01127 author:Jessy W Grizzle, Christine Chevallereau category:cs.RO cs.SY math.DS math.OC  published:2017-06-04 summary:Underactuation is ubiquitous in human locomotion and should be ubiquitous in bipedal robotic locomotion as well. This chapter presents a coherent theory for the design of feedback controllers that achieve stable walking gaits in underactuated bipedal robots. Two fundamental tools are introduced, virtual constraints and hybrid zero dynamics. Virtual constraints are relations on the state variables of a mechanical model that are imposed through a time-invariant feedback controller. One of their roles is to synchronize the robot's joints to an internal gait phasing variable. A second role is to induce a low dimensional system, the zero dynamics, that captures the underactuated aspects of a robot's model, without any approximations. To enhance intuition, the relation between physical constraints and virtual constraints is first established. From here, the hybrid zero dynamics of an underactuated bipedal model is developed, and its fundamental role in the design of asymptotically stable walking motions is established. The chapter includes numerous references to robots on which the highlighted techniques have been implemented. version:1
arxiv-1706-01102 | SocioSense: Robot Navigation Amongst Pedestrians with Social and Psychological Constraints | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01102 | id:1706.01102 author:Aniket Bera, Tanmay Randhavane, Rohan Prinja, Dinesh Manocha category:cs.RO cs.MA  published:2017-06-04 summary:We present a real-time algorithm, SocioSense, for socially-aware navigation of a robot amongst pedestrians. Our approach computes time-varying behaviors of each pedestrian using Bayesian learning and Personality Trait theory. These psychological characteristics are used for long-term path prediction and generating proximic characteristics for each pedestrian. We combine these psychological constraints with social constraints to perform human-aware robot navigation in low- to medium-density crowds. The estimation of time-varying behaviors and pedestrian personalities can improve the performance of long-term path prediction by 21%, as compared to prior interactive path prediction algorithms. We also demonstrate the benefits of our socially-aware navigation in simulated environments with tens of pedestrians. version:1
arxiv-1610-09372 | Multi-agent projective simulation: A starting point | http://arxiv.org/abs/1610.09372 | id:1610.09372 author:Rasoul Kheiri category:cs.AI  published:2016-10-29 summary:We develop a two-defender (Alice and Bob) invasion game using the method of projective simulation as an embodied model for artificial intelligence. We hope that it will be the first step towards the effect of perception on different actions in a given game. As a given perception of a given situation, the agent, say Alice, encounters some attack symbols coming from the right attacker where she can learn to prevent. However, some of these percepts are invisible for her. Instead, she perceives some other signs that are related to her partner's (Bob) task. We elaborate an example in which an agent perceives an equal portion of percepts from both attackers. Alice can choose to concentrate on her job, though she loses some attacks. Alternatively, she can have some sort of cooperation with Bob to get and give help. It follows that the maximum blocking efficiency in concentration is just the minimum blocking efficiency in cooperation. Furthermore, Alice would have a choice to select two different forgetting factors for blocking attacks and for helping task. Therefore, she can choose between herself and the other. Consequently, selfishness is discerned as an only Nash equilibrium in this game. It is a pure strategy and Pareto optimal and containing Shapley value in this superadditive coalition. Finally, we propose another perception for the same situation that can be tracked in the future regarding the present study. version:2
arxiv-1705-07325 | Fast Change Point Detection on Dynamic Social Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.07325 | id:1705.07325 author:Yu Wang, Aniket Chakrabarti, David Sivakoff, Srinivasan Parthasarathy category:cs.SI cs.AI  published:2017-05-20 summary:A number of real world problems in many domains (e.g. sociology, biology, political science and communication networks) can be modeled as dynamic networks with nodes representing entities of interest and edges representing interactions among the entities at different points in time. A common representation for such models is the snapshot model - where a network is defined at logical time-stamps. An important problem under this model is change point detection. In this work we devise an effective and efficient three-step-approach for detecting change points in dynamic networks under the snapshot model. Our algorithm achieves up to 9X speedup over the state-of-the-art while improving quality on both synthetic and real world networks. version:2
arxiv-1706-01077 | Actor-Critic for Linearly-Solvable Continuous MDP with Partially Known Dynamics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01077 | id:1706.01077 author:Tomoki Nishi, Prashant Doshi, Michael R. James, Danil Prokhorov category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-04 summary:In many robotic applications, some aspects of the system dynamics can be modeled accurately while others are difficult to obtain or model. We present a novel reinforcement learning (RL) method for continuous state and action spaces that learns with partial knowledge of the system and without active exploration. It solves linearly-solvable Markov decision processes (L-MDPs), which are well suited for continuous state and action spaces, based on an actor-critic architecture. Compared to previous RL methods for L-MDPs and path integral methods which are model based, the actor-critic learning does not need a model of the uncontrolled dynamics and, importantly, transition noise levels; however, it requires knowing the control dynamics for the problem. We evaluate our method on two synthetic test problems, and one real-world problem in simulation and using real traffic data. Our experiments demonstrate improved learning and policy performance. version:1
arxiv-1705-10300 | Effective Metrics for Multi-Robot Motion-Planning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10300 | id:1705.10300 author:Aviel Atias, Kiril Solovey, Dan Halperin category:cs.RO  published:2017-05-29 summary:We study the effectiveness of metrics for Multi-Robot Motion-Planning (MRMP) when using RRT-style sampling-based planners. These metrics play the crucial role of determining the nearest neighbors of configurations and in that they regulate the connectivity of the underlying roadmaps produced by the planners and other properties like the quality of solution paths. After screening over a dozen different metrics we focus on the five most promising ones- two more traditional metrics, and three novel ones which we propose here, adapted from the domain of shape-matching. In addition to the novel multi-robot metrics, a central contribution of this work are tools to analyze and predict the effectiveness of metrics in the MRMP context. We identify a suite of possible substructures in the configuration space, for which it is fairly easy (i) to define a so-called natural distance which allows us to predict the performance of a metric. This is done by comparing the distribution of its values for sampled pairs of configurations to the distribution induced by the natural distance; (ii) to define equivalence classes of configurations and test how well a metric covers the different classes. We provide experiments that attest to the ability of our tools to predict the effectiveness of metrics: those metrics that qualify in the analysis yield higher success rate of the planner with fewer vertices in the roadmap. We also show how combining several metrics together leads to better results (success rate and size of roadmap) than using a single metric. version:2
arxiv-1702-08367 | Differentiable Learning of Logical Rules for Knowledge Base Reasoning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08367 | id:1702.08367 author:Fan Yang, Zhilin Yang, William W. Cohen category:cs.AI  published:2017-02-27 summary:We study the problem of learning probabilistic first-order logical rules for knowledge base reasoning. This learning problem is difficult because it requires learning the parameters in a continuous space as well as the structure in a discrete space. We propose a framework, Neural Logic Programming, that combines the parameter and structure learning of first-order logical rules in an end-to-end differentiable model. This approach is inspired by a recently-developed differentiable logic called TensorLog, where inference tasks can be compiled into sequences of differentiable operations. We design a neural controller system that learns to compose these operations. Empirically, our method obtains state-of-the-art results on multiple knowledge base benchmark datasets, including Freebase and WikiMovies. version:2
arxiv-1706-01022 | Distributed Contingency Analysis over Wide Area Network among Dispatch Centers | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01022 | id:1706.01022 author:Zhengwei Ren, Ying Chen, Shaowei Huang, Shuang Sheng, Huiping Zheng, Xinyuan Liu category:cs.DC  published:2017-06-04 summary:Traditionally, a regional dispatch center uses the equivalent method to deal with external grids, which fails to reflect the interactions among regions. This paper proposes a distributed N-1 contingency analysis (DCA) solution, where dispatch centers join a coordinated computation using their private data and computing resources. A distributed screening method is presented to determine the Critical Contingency Set (DCCS) in DCA. Then, the distributed power flow is formulated as a set of boundary equations, which is solved by a Jacobi-Free Newton-GMRES (JFNG) method. During solving the distributed power flow, only boundary conditions are exchanged. Acceleration techniques are also introduced, including reusing preconditioners and optimal resource scheduling during parallel processing of multiple contingencies. The proposed method is implemented on a real EMS platform, where tests using the Southwest Regional Grid of China are carried out to validate its feasibility. version:1
arxiv-1702-06075 | Momentum Control of an Underactuated Flying Humanoid Robot | http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.06075 | id:1702.06075 author:Daniele Pucci, Silvio Traversaro, Francesco Nori category:cs.RO math.DS  published:2017-02-16 summary:The paper takes the first step towards the de- velopment of a control framework for underactuated flying humanoid robots. These robots may thus have the capacities of flight, contact locomotion, and manipulation, and benefit from technologies and methods developed for Whole-Body Control and Aerial Manipulation. As in the case of quadrotors, we as- sume that the humanoid robot is powered by four thrust forces. For convenience, these forces are placed at the robot hands and feet. The control objective is defined as the asymptotic stabilization of the robot centroidal momentum. This objective allows us to track a desired trajectory for the robot center of mass and keep small errors between a reference orientation and the robot base frame. Stability and convergence of the robot momentum are shown to be in the sense of Lyapunov. Simulations carried out on a model of the humanoid robot iCub verify the soundness of the proposed approach. version:2
arxiv-1706-00989 | Visuospatial Skill Learning for Robots | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00989 | id:1706.00989 author:S. Reza Ahmadzadeh, Fulvio Mastrogiovanni, Petar Kormushev category:cs.RO cs.AI 68T40  published:2017-06-03 summary:A novel skill learning approach is proposed that allows a robot to acquire human-like visuospatial skills for object manipulation tasks. Visuospatial skills are attained by observing spatial relationships among objects through demonstrations. The proposed Visuospatial Skill Learning (VSL) is a goal-based approach that focuses on achieving a desired goal configuration of objects relative to one another while maintaining the sequence of operations. VSL is capable of learning and generalizing multi-operation skills from a single demonstration, while requiring minimum prior knowledge about the objects and the environment. In contrast to many existing approaches, VSL offers simplicity, efficiency and user-friendly human-robot interaction. We also show that VSL can be easily extended towards 3D object manipulation tasks, simply by employing point cloud processing techniques. In addition, a robot learning framework, VSL-SP, is proposed by integrating VSL, Imitation Learning, and a conventional planning method. In VSL-SP, the sequence of performed actions are learned using VSL, while the sensorimotor skills are learned using a conventional trajectory-based learning approach. such integration easily extends robot capabilities to novel situations, even by users without programming ability. In VSL-SP the internal planner of VSL is integrated with an existing action-level symbolic planner. Using the underlying constraints of the task and extracted symbolic predicates, identified by VSL, symbolic representation of the task is updated. Therefore the planner maintains a generalized representation of each skill as a reusable action, which can be used in planning and performed independently during the learning phase. The proposed approach is validated through several real-world experiments. version:1
arxiv-1706-00955 | Design and Execution of make-like, distributed Analyses based on Spotify's Pipelining Package Luigi | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00955 | id:1706.00955 author:Marcel Rieger, Martin Erdmann, Benjamin Fischer, Robert Fischer category:physics.data-an cs.DC  published:2017-06-03 summary:In high-energy particle physics, workflow management systems are primarily used as tailored solutions in dedicated areas such as Monte Carlo production. However, physicists performing data analyses are usually required to steer their individual workflows manually which is time-consuming and often leads to undocumented relations between particular workloads. We present a generic analysis design pattern that copes with the sophisticated demands of end-to-end HEP analyses and provides a make-like execution system. It is based on the open-source pipelining package Luigi which was developed at Spotify and enables the definition of arbitrary workloads, so-called Tasks, and the dependencies between them in a lightweight and scalable structure. Further features are multi-user support, automated dependency resolution and error handling, central scheduling, and status visualization in the web. In addition to already built-in features for remote jobs and file systems like Hadoop and HDFS, we added support for WLCG infrastructure such as LSF and CREAM job submission, as well as remote file access through the Grid File Access Library. Furthermore, we implemented automated resubmission functionality, software sandboxing, and a command line interface with auto-completion for a convenient working environment. For the implementation of a $t\bar{t}H$ cross section measurement, we created a generic Python interface that provides programmatic access to all external information such as datasets, physics processes, statistical models, and additional files and values. In summary, the setup enables the execution of the entire analysis in a parallelized and distributed fashion with a single command. version:1
arxiv-1611-09948 | Contextualizing Geometric Data Analysis and Related Data Analytics: A Virtual Microscope for Big Data Analytics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09948 | id:1611.09948 author:Fionn Murtagh, Mohsen Farid category:cs.AI cs.CY 62H30  68P01  6207 G.3  H.2.8  I.2.1  published:2016-11-30 summary:The relevance and importance of contextualizing data analytics is described. Qualitative characteristics might form the context of quantitative analysis. Topics that are at issue include: contrast, baselining, secondary data sources, supplementary data sources, dynamic and heterogeneous data. In geometric data analysis, especially with the Correspondence Analysis platform, various case studies are both experimented with, and are reviewed. In such aspects as paradigms followed, and technical implementation, implicitly and explicitly, an important point made is the major relevance of such work for both burgeoning analytical needs and for new analytical areas including Big Data analytics, and so on. For the general reader, it is aimed to display and describe, first of all, the analytical outcomes that are subject to analysis here, and then proceed to detail the more quantitative outcomes that fully support the analytics carried out. version:3
arxiv-1205-5098 | A Simplified Description of Fuzzy TOPSIS | http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.5098 | id:1205.5098 author:Balwinder Sodhi, Prabhakar T. V category:cs.AI G.1.6  published:2012-05-23 summary:A simplified description of Fuzzy TOPSIS (Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Situation) is presented. We have adapted the TOPSIS description from existing Fuzzy theory literature and distilled the bare minimum concepts required for understanding and applying TOPSIS. An example has been worked out to illustrate the application of TOPSIS for a multi-criteria group decision making scenario. version:2
arxiv-1609-07721 | Testing Quantum Models of Conjunction Fallacy on the World Wide Web | http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.07721 | id:1609.07721 author:Diederik Aerts, Jonito Aerts Arguëlles, Lester Beltran, Lyneth Beltran, Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi, Sandro Sozzo, Tomas Veloz category:cs.AI quant-ph  published:2016-09-25 summary:The 'conjunction fallacy' has been extensively debated by scholars in cognitive science and, in recent times, the discussion has been enriched by the proposal of modeling the fallacy using the quantum formalism. Two major quantum approaches have been put forward: the first assumes that respondents use a two-step sequential reasoning and that the fallacy results from the presence of 'question order effects'; the second assumes that respondents evaluate the cognitive situation as a whole and that the fallacy results from the 'emergence of new meanings', as an 'effect of overextension' in the conceptual conjunction. Thus, the question arises as to determine whether and to what extent conjunction fallacies would result from 'order effects' or, instead, from 'emergence effects'. To help clarify this situation, we propose to use the World Wide Web as an 'information space' that can be interrogated both in a sequential and non-sequential way, to test these two quantum approaches. We find that 'emergence effects', and not 'order effects', should be considered the main cognitive mechanism producing the observed conjunction fallacies. version:2
arxiv-1706-00871 | A Lower Bound on Observability for Target Tracking with Range Sensors and its Application to Sensor Assignment | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00871 | id:1706.00871 author:Lifeng Zhou, Pratap Tokekar category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-02 summary:We present a novel lower bound on the inverse of the condition number of the observability matrix for a system composed on one mobile target sensed by multiple stationary sensors. The actual observability matrix cannot be computed since the control input for the target is not known to the sensors. Instead, we present a lower bound on the observability matrix and its condition number assuming bounded velocity model for the target. We then employ this lower bound for assigning pairs of sensors to track a mobile target. We show empirically that optimizing the lower bound performs comparably with optimizing the (unknown) true condition number. version:1
arxiv-1706-00765 | Temporal Task Planning and Intermittent Communication Control of Mobile Robot Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00765 | id:1706.00765 author:Yiannis Kantaros, Meng Guo, Michael M. Zavlanos category:cs.RO cs.MA  published:2017-06-02 summary:In this paper, we develop a distributed intermittent communication and task planning framework for teams of mobile robots. The goal of the robots is to accomplish complex tasks, captured by local Linear Temporal Logic formulas, and share the collected information with all other robots and possibly also with a user. Specifically, we consider situations where the robot communication capabilities are not sufficient to form reliable and connected networks while the robots move to accomplish their tasks. In this case, intermittent communication protocols are necessary that allow the robots to temporarily disconnect from the network in order to accomplish their tasks free of communication constraints. We assume that the robots can only communicate with each other when they meet at common locations in space. Our distributed control framework jointly determines local plans that allow all robots fulfill their assigned temporal tasks, sequences of communication events that guarantee information exchange infinitely often, and optimal communication locations that minimize the total distance traveled by the robots. Simulation and experimental results verify the efficacy of the proposed distributed controllers. version:1
arxiv-1706-00638 | ICABiDAS: Intuition Centred Architecture for Big Data Analysis and Synthesis | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00638 | id:1706.00638 author:Amit Kumar Mishra category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-02 summary:Humans are expert in the amount of sensory data they deal with each moment. Human brain not only analyses these data but also starts synthesizing new information from the existing data. The current age Big-data systems are needed not just to analyze data but also to come up new interpretation. We believe that the pivotal ability in human brain which enables us to do this is what is known as "intuition". Here, we present an intuition based architecture for big data analysis and synthesis. version:1
arxiv-1706-00637 | Joint Matrix-Tensor Factorization for Knowledge Base Inference | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00637 | id:1706.00637 author:Prachi Jain, Shikhar Murty, Mausam, Soumen Chakrabarti category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-02 summary:While several matrix factorization (MF) and tensor factorization (TF) models have been proposed for knowledge base (KB) inference, they have rarely been compared across various datasets. Is there a single model that performs well across datasets? If not, what characteristics of a dataset determine the performance of MF and TF models? Is there a joint TF+MF model that performs robustly on all datasets? We perform an extensive evaluation to compare popular KB inference models across popular datasets in the literature. In addition to answering the questions above, we remove a limitation in the standard evaluation protocol for MF models, propose an extension to MF models so that they can better handle out-of-vocabulary (OOV) entity pairs, and develop a novel combination of TF and MF models. We also analyze and explain the results based on models and dataset characteristics. Our best model is robust, and obtains strong results across all datasets. version:1
arxiv-1707-05224 | Detection, Recognition and Tracking of Moving Objects from Real-time Video via Visual Vocabulary Model and Species Inspired PSO | http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.05224 | id:1707.05224 author:Kumar S. Ray, Anit Chakraborty, Sayandip Dutta category:cs.CV cs.AI  published:2017-06-02 summary:In this paper, we address the basic problem of recognizing moving objects in video images using Visual Vocabulary model and Bag of Words and track our object of interest in the subsequent video frames using species inspired PSO. Initially, the shadow free images are obtained by background modelling followed by foreground modeling to extract the blobs of our object of interest. Subsequently, we train a cubic SVM with human body datasets in accordance with our domain of interest for recognition and tracking. During training, using the principle of Bag of Words we extract necessary features of certain domains and objects for classification. Subsequently, matching these feature sets with those of the extracted object blobs that are obtained by subtracting the shadow free background from the foreground, we detect successfully our object of interest from the test domain. The performance of the classification by cubic SVM is satisfactorily represented by confusion matrix and ROC curve reflecting the accuracy of each module. After classification, our object of interest is tracked in the test domain using species inspired PSO. By combining the adaptive learning tools with the efficient classification of description, we achieve optimum accuracy in recognition of the moving objects. We evaluate our algorithm benchmark datasets: iLIDS, VIVID, Walking2, Woman. Comparative analysis of our algorithm against the existing state-of-the-art trackers shows very satisfactory and competitive results. version:1
arxiv-1706-00585 | Exception-Based Knowledge Updates | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00585 | id:1706.00585 author:Martin Slota, Joao Leite category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-02 summary:Existing methods for dealing with knowledge updates differ greatly depending on the underlying knowledge representation formalism. When Classical Logic is used, updates are typically performed by manipulating the knowledge base on the model-theoretic level. On the opposite side of the spectrum stand the semantics for updating Answer-Set Programs that need to rely on rule syntax. Yet, a unifying perspective that could embrace both these branches of research is of great importance as it enables a deeper understanding of all involved methods and principles and creates room for their cross-fertilisation, ripening and further development. This paper bridges the seemingly irreconcilable approaches to updates. It introduces a novel monotonic characterisation of rules, dubbed RE-models, and shows it to be a more suitable semantic foundation for rule updates than SE-models. Then it proposes a generic scheme for specifying semantic rule update operators, based on the idea of viewing a program as the set of sets of RE-models of its rules; updates are performed by introducing additional interpretations - exceptions - to the sets of RE-models of rules in the original program. The introduced scheme is used to define rule update operators that are closely related to both classical update principles and traditional approaches to rules updates, and serve as a basis for a solution to the long-standing problem of state condensing, showing how they can be equivalently defined as binary operators on some class of logic programs. Finally, the essence of these ideas is extracted to define an abstract framework for exception-based update operators, viewing a knowledge base as the set of sets of models of its elements, which can capture a wide range of both model- and formula-based classical update operators, and thus serves as the first firm formal ground connecting classical and rule updates. version:1
arxiv-1705-10044 | Abstract Argumentation / Persuasion / Dynamics | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10044 | id:1705.10044 author:Ryuta Arisaka, Ken Satoh category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-29 summary:The act of persuasion, a key component in rhetoric argumentation, may be viewed as a dynamics modifier. Such modifiers are well-known in other research fields: recall dynamic epistemic logic where operators modify possible world accessibilities, or recall side effects and concurrency in programming languages. We consider persuasion in abstract argumentation as undertaking a similar role. We extend Dung's frameworks with acts of persuasion among agents into Abstract Persuasion Argumentation (APA), and set forth properties related to arguments' admissibilities. We show a way of enriching our basic notion of admissibility through CTL (computation tree logic) encoding, which also permits importation of the theoretical results known to the logic into our argumentation frameworks. version:2
arxiv-1706-00536 | Latent Attention Networks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00536 | id:1706.00536 author:Christopher Grimm, Dilip Arumugam, Siddharth Karamcheti, David Abel, Lawson L. S. Wong, Michael L. Littman category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-02 summary:Deep neural networks are able to solve tasks across a variety of domains and modalities of data. Despite many empirical successes, we lack the ability to clearly understand and interpret the learned internal mechanisms that contribute to such effective behaviors or, more critically, failure modes. In this work, we present a general method for visualizing an arbitrary neural network's inner mechanisms and their power and limitations. Our dataset-centric method produces visualizations of how a trained network attends to components of its inputs. The computed "attention masks" support improved interpretability by highlighting which input attributes are critical in determining output. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on a variety of deep neural network architectures in domains from computer vision, natural language processing, and reinforcement learning. The primary contribution of our approach is an interpretable visualization of attention that provides unique insights into the network's underlying decision-making process irrespective of the data modality. version:1
arxiv-1706-00526 | Knowledge Representation in Bicategories of Relations | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00526 | id:1706.00526 author:Evan Patterson category:cs.AI cs.LO math.CT  published:2017-06-02 summary:We introduce the relational ontology log, or relational olog, a knowledge representation system based on the category of sets and relations. It is inspired by Spivak and Kent's olog, a recent categorical framework for knowledge representation. Relational ologs interpolate between ologs and description logic, the dominant formalism for knowledge representation today. In this paper, we investigate relational ologs both for their own sake and to gain insight into the relationship between the algebraic and logical approaches to knowledge representation. On a practical level, we show by example that relational ologs have a friendly and intuitive--yet fully precise--graphical syntax, derived from the string diagrams of monoidal categories. We explain several other useful features of relational ologs not possessed by most description logics, such as a type system and a rich, flexible notion of instance data. In a more theoretical vein, we draw on categorical logic to show how relational ologs can be translated to and from logical theories in a fragment of first-order logic. Although we make extensive use of categorical language, this paper is designed to be self-contained and has considerable expository content. The only prerequisites are knowledge of first-order logic and the rudiments of category theory. version:1
arxiv-1706-00508 | A Vision-Guided Multi-Robot Cooperation Framework for Learning-by-Demonstration and Task Reproduction | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00508 | id:1706.00508 author:Bidan Huang, Menglong Ye, Su-Lin Lee, Guang-Zhong Yang category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-01 summary:This paper presents a vision-based learning-by-demonstration approach to enable robots to learn and complete a manipulation task cooperatively. With this method, a vision system is involved in both the task demonstration and reproduction stages. An expert first demonstrates how to use tools to perform a task, while the tool motion is observed using a vision system. The demonstrations are then encoded using a statistical model to generate a reference motion trajectory. Equipped with the same tools and the learned model, the robot is guided by vision to reproduce the task. The task performance was evaluated in terms of both accuracy and speed. However, simply increasing the robot's speed could decrease the reproduction accuracy. To this end, a dual-rate Kalman filter is employed to compensate for latency between the robot and vision system. More importantly, the sampling rates of the reference trajectory and the robot speed are optimised adaptively according to the learned motion model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by performing two tasks: a trajectory reproduction task and a bimanual sewing task. We show that using our vision-based approach, the robots can conduct effective learning by demonstrations and perform accurate and fast task reproduction. The proposed approach is generalisable to other manipulation tasks, where bimanual or multi-robot cooperation is required. version:1
arxiv-1609-05399 | Evaluating Trajectory Collision Probability through Adaptive Importance Sampling for Safe Motion Planning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.05399 | id:1609.05399 author:Edward Schmerling, Marco Pavone category:cs.RO  published:2016-09-17 summary:This paper presents a tool for addressing a key component in many algorithms for planning robot trajectories under uncertainty: evaluation of the safety of a robot whose actions are governed by a closed-loop feedback policy near a nominal planned trajectory. We describe an adaptive importance sampling Monte Carlo framework that enables the evaluation of a given control policy for satisfaction of a probabilistic collision avoidance constraint which also provides an associated certificate of accuracy (in the form of a confidence interval). In particular this adaptive technique is well-suited to addressing the complexities of rigid-body collision checking applied to non-linear robot dynamics. As a Monte Carlo method it is amenable to parallelization for computational tractability, and is generally applicable to a wide gamut of simulatable systems, including alternative noise models. Numerical experiments demonstrating the effectiveness of the adaptive importance sampling procedure are presented and discussed. version:2
arxiv-1705-09271 | Is Our Model for Contention Resolution Wrong? | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.09271 | id:1705.09271 author:William C. Anderton, Maxwell Young category:cs.DC cs.DS  published:2017-05-25 summary:Randomized binary exponential backoff (BEB) is a popular algorithm for coordinating access to a shared channel. With an operational history exceeding four decades, BEB is currently an important component of several wireless standards. Despite this track record, prior theoretical results indicate that under bursty traffic (1) BEB yields poor makespan and (2) superior algorithms are possible. To date, the degree to which these findings manifest in practice has not been resolved. To address this issue, we examine one of the strongest cases against BEB: $n$ packets that simultaneously begin contending for the wireless channel. Using Network Simulator 3, we compare against more recent algorithms that are inspired by BEB, but whose makespan guarantees are superior. Surprisingly, we discover that these newer algorithms significantly underperform. Through further investigation, we identify as the culprit a flawed but common abstraction regarding the cost of collisions. Our experimental results are complemented by analytical arguments that the number of collisions -- and not solely makespan -- is an important metric to optimize. We believe that these findings have implications for the design of contention-resolution algorithms. version:2
arxiv-1706-00356 | Enhancing workflow-nets with data for trace completion | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00356 | id:1706.00356 author:Riccardo De Masellis, Chiara Di Francescomarino, Chiara Ghidini, Sergio Tessaris category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-01 summary:The growing adoption of IT-systems for modeling and executing (business) processes or services has thrust the scientific investigation towards techniques and tools which support more complex forms of process analysis. Many of them, such as conformance checking, process alignment, mining and enhancement, rely on complete observation of past (tracked and logged) executions. In many real cases, however, the lack of human or IT-support on all the steps of process execution, as well as information hiding and abstraction of model and data, result in incomplete log information of both data and activities. This paper tackles the issue of automatically repairing traces with missing information by notably considering not only activities but also data manipulated by them. Our technique recasts such a problem in a reachability problem and provides an encoding in an action language which allows to virtually use any state-of-the-art planning to return solutions. version:1
arxiv-1706-00355 | Grounding Symbols in Multi-Modal Instructions | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00355 | id:1706.00355 author:Yordan Hristov, Svetlin Penkov, Alex Lascarides, Subramanian Ramamoorthy category:cs.AI  published:2017-06-01 summary:As robots begin to cohabit with humans in semi-structured environments, the need arises to understand instructions involving rich variability---for instance, learning to ground symbols in the physical world. Realistically, this task must cope with small datasets consisting of a particular users' contextual assignment of meaning to terms. We present a method for processing a raw stream of cross-modal input---i.e., linguistic instructions, visual perception of a scene and a concurrent trace of 3D eye tracking fixations---to produce the segmentation of objects with a correspondent association to high-level concepts. To test our framework we present experiments in a table-top object manipulation scenario. Our results show our model learns the user's notion of colour and shape from a small number of physical demonstrations, generalising to identifying physical referents for novel combinations of the words. version:1
arxiv-1706-00339 | Bipedal locomotion using variable stiffness actuation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00339 | id:1706.00339 author:Ludo C. Visser, Stefano Stramigioli, Raffaella Carloni category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-01 summary:Robust and energy-efficient bipedal locomotion in robotics is still a challenging topic. In order to address issues in this field, we can take inspiration from nature, by studying human locomotion. The Spring-Loaded Inverted Pendulum (SLIP) model has shown to be a good model for this purpose. However, the human musculoskeletal system enables us to actively modulate leg stiffness, for example when walking in rough terrain with irregular and unexpected height variations of the walking surface. This ability of varying leg stiffness is not considered in conventional SLIP-based models, and therefore this paper explores the potential role of active leg stiffness variation in bipedal locomotion. It is shown that the conceptual SLIP model can be iteratively extended to more closely resemble a realistic (i.e., non-ideal) walker, and that feedback control strategies can be designed that reproduce the SLIP behavior in these extended models. We show that these extended models realize a cost of transport comparable to human walking, which indicates that active leg stiffness variation plays an important role in human locomotion that was previously not captured by the SLIP model. The results of this study show that active leg stiffness adaptation is a promising approach for realizing more energy-efficient and robust bipedal walking robots. version:1
arxiv-1706-00327 | One button machine for automating feature engineering in relational databases | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00327 | id:1706.00327 author:Hoang Thanh Lam, Johann-Michael Thiebaut, Mathieu Sinn, Bei Chen, Tiep Mai, Oznur Alkan category:cs.DB cs.AI  published:2017-06-01 summary:Feature engineering is one of the most important and time consuming tasks in predictive analytics projects. It involves understanding domain knowledge and data exploration to discover relevant hand-crafted features from raw data. In this paper, we introduce a system called One Button Machine, or OneBM for short, which automates feature discovery in relational databases. OneBM automatically performs a key activity of data scientists, namely, joining of database tables and applying advanced data transformations to extract useful features from data. We validated OneBM in Kaggle competitions in which OneBM achieved performance as good as top 16% to 24% data scientists in three Kaggle competitions. More importantly, OneBM outperformed the state-of-the-art system in a Kaggle competition in terms of prediction accuracy and ranking on Kaggle leaderboard. The results show that OneBM can be useful for both data scientists and non-experts. It helps data scientists reduce data exploration time allowing them to try and error many ideas in short time. On the other hand, it enables non-experts, who are not familiar with data science, to quickly extract value from their data with a little effort, time and cost. version:1
arxiv-1706-00266 | A graph model of message passing processes | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00266 | id:1706.00266 author:Andrew M. Mironov category:cs.LO cs.DC  published:2017-06-01 summary:In the paper we consider a graph model of message passing processes and present a method verification of message passing processes. The method is illustrated by an example of a verification of sliding window protocol. version:1
arxiv-1706-00155 | Shared Autonomy via Hindsight Optimization for Teleoperation and Teaming | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00155 | id:1706.00155 author:Shervin Javdani, Henny Admoni, Stefania Pellegrinelli, Siddhartha S. Srinivasa, J. Andrew Bagnell category:cs.RO  published:2017-06-01 summary:In shared autonomy, a user and autonomous system work together to achieve shared goals. To collaborate effectively, the autonomous system must know the user's goal. As such, most prior works follow a predict-then-act model, first predicting the user's goal with high confidence, then assisting given that goal. Unfortunately, confidently predicting the user's goal may not be possible until they have nearly achieved it, causing predict-then-act methods to provide little assistance. However, the system can often provide useful assistance even when confidence for any single goal is low (e.g. move towards multiple goals). In this work, we formalize this insight by modelling shared autonomy as a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP), providing assistance that minimizes the expected cost-to-go with an unknown goal. As solving this POMDP optimally is intractable, we use hindsight optimization to approximate. We apply our framework to both shared-control teleoperation and human-robot teaming. Compared to predict-then-act methods, our method achieves goals faster, requires less user input, decreases user idling time, and results in fewer user-robot collisions. version:1
arxiv-1705-10899 | Propositional Knowledge Representation in Restricted Boltzmann Machines | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10899 | id:1705.10899 author:Son N. Tran category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-31 summary:Representing symbolic knowledge into a connectionist network is the key element for the integration of scalable learning and sound reasoning. Most of the previous studies focus on discriminative neural networks which unnecessarily require a separation of input/output variables. Recent development of generative neural networks such as restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs) has shown a capability of learning semantic abstractions directly from data, posing a promise for general symbolic learning and reasoning. Previous work on Penalty logic show a link between propositional logic and symmetric connectionist networks, however it is not applicable to RBMs. This paper proposes a novel method to represent propositional formulas into RBMs/stack of RBMs where Gibbs sampling can be seen as maximising satisfiability. It also shows a promising use of RBMs to learn symbolic knowledge through maximum likelihood estimation. version:2
arxiv-1706-00123 | Diversified Top-k Partial MaxSAT Solving | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00123 | id:1706.00123 author:Junping Zhou, Huanyao Sun, Feifei Ma, Jian Gao, Ke Xu, Minghao Yin category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-31 summary:We introduce a diversified top-k partial MaxSAT problem, a combination of partial MaxSAT problem and enumeration problem. Given a partial MaxSAT formula F and a positive integer k, the diversified top-k partial MaxSAT is to find k maximal solutions for F such that the k maximal solutions satisfy the maximum number of soft clauses of F. This problem can be widely used in many applications including community detection, sensor place, motif discovery, and combinatorial testing. We prove the problem is NP-hard and propose an approach for solving the problem. The concrete idea of the approach is to design an encoding EE which reduces diversified top-k partial MaxSAT problem into partial MaxSAT problem, and then solve the resulting problem with state-of-art solvers. In addition, we present an algorithm MEMKC exactly solving the diversified top-k partial MaxSAT. Through several experiments we show that our approach can be successfully applied to the interesting problem. version:1
arxiv-1612-08709 | Randomized algorithms for distributed computation of principal component analysis and singular value decomposition | http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08709 | id:1612.08709 author:Huamin Li, Yuval Kluger, Mark Tygert category:cs.DC cs.NA math.NA stat.CO  published:2016-12-27 summary:As illustrated via numerical experiments with an implementation in Spark (the popular platform for distributed computation), randomized algorithms provide solutions to two ubiquitous problems: (1) the distributed calculation of a full principal component analysis or singular value decomposition of a highly rectangular matrix, and (2) the distributed calculation of a low-rank approximation (in the form of a singular value decomposition) to an arbitrary matrix. Carefully honed algorithms yield results that are uniformly superior to those of the stock, deterministic implementations in Spark; for instance, whereas the stock software will without warning return left singular vectors that are far from numerically orthonormal, a significantly burnished randomized implementation generates left singular vectors that are numerically orthonormal to nearly the machine precision. version:3
arxiv-1706-00066 | Descriptions of Objectives and Processes of Mechanical Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00066 | id:1706.00066 author:Chuyu Xiong category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-31 summary:In [1], we introduced mechanical learning and proposed 2 approaches to mechanical learning. Here, we follow one such approach to well describe the objects and the processes of learning. We discuss 2 kinds of patterns: objective and subjective pattern. Subjective pattern is crucial for learning machine. We prove that for any objective pattern we can find a proper subjective pattern based upon least base patterns to express the objective pattern well. X-form is algebraic expression for subjective pattern. Collection of X-forms form internal representation space, which is center of learning machine. We discuss learning by teaching and without teaching. We define data sufficiency by X-form. We then discussed some learning strategies. We show, in each strategy, with sufficient data, and with certain capabilities, learning machine indeed can learn any pattern (universal learning machine). In appendix, with knowledge of learning machine, we try to view deep learning from a different angle, i.e. its internal representation space and its learning dynamics. version:1
arxiv-1706-01303 | The Singularity May Be Near | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.01303 | id:1706.01303 author:Roman V. Yampolskiy category:cs.AI cs.CY  published:2017-05-31 summary:Toby Walsh in 'The Singularity May Never Be Near' gives six arguments to support his point of view that technological singularity may happen but that it is unlikely. In this paper, we provide analysis of each one of his arguments and arrive at similar conclusions, but with more weight given to the 'likely to happen' probability. version:1
arxiv-1706-00037 | A Diversified Multi-Start Algorithm for Unconstrained Binary Quadratic Problems Leveraging the Graphics Processor Unit | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00037 | id:1706.00037 author:Mark W. Lewis category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-31 summary:Multi-start algorithms are a common and effective tool for metaheuristic searches. In this paper we amplify multi-start capabilities by employing the parallel processing power of the graphics processer unit (GPU) to quickly generate a diverse starting set of solutions for the Unconstrained Binary Quadratic Optimization Problem which are evaluated and used to implement screening methods to select solutions for further optimization. This method is implemented as an initial high quality solution generation phase prior to a secondary steepest ascent search and a comparison of results to best known approaches on benchmark unconstrained binary quadratic problems demonstrates that GPU-enabled diversified multi-start with screening quickly yields very good results. version:1
arxiv-1706-00036 | Aerial Grasping: Modeling and Control of a Flying Hand | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00036 | id:1706.00036 author:R. T. L. M. Tummers, M. Fumagalli, R. Carloni category:cs.RO  published:2017-05-31 summary:In this paper, we present the design, simulation and experimental validation of a control architecture for a flying hand, i.e., a system made of an unmanned aerial vehicle, a robotic manipulator and a gripper, which is grasping an object fixed on a vertical wall. The goal of this work is to show that the overall control allows the flying hand to approach the wall, to dock on the object by means of the gripper, take the object and fly away. The control strategy has been implemented and validated in the simulated model and in experiments on the complete flying hand system. version:1
arxiv-1706-00007 | A Learning Based Optimal Human Robot Collaboration with Linear Temporal Logic Constraints | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.00007 | id:1706.00007 author:Bo Wu, Bin Hu, Hai Lin category:cs.RO cs.AI cs.HC  published:2017-05-31 summary:This paper considers an optimal task allocation problem for human robot collaboration in human robot systems with persistent tasks. Such human robot systems consist of human operators and intelligent robots collaborating with each other to accomplish complex tasks that cannot be done by either part alone. The system objective is to maximize the probability of successfully executing persistent tasks that are formulated as linear temporal logic specifications and minimize the average cost between consecutive visits of a particular proposition. This paper proposes to model the human robot collaboration under a framework with the composition of multiple Markov Decision Process (MDP) with possibly unknown transition probabilities, which characterizes how human cognitive states, such as human trust and fatigue, stochastically change with the robot performance. Under the unknown MDP models, an algorithm is developed to learn the model and obtain an optimal task allocation policy that minimizes the expected average cost for each task cycle and maximizes the probability of satisfying linear temporal logic constraints. Moreover, this paper shows that the difference between the optimal policy based on the learned model and that based on the underlying ground truth model can be bounded by arbitrarily small constant and large confidence level with sufficient samples. The case study of an assembly process demonstrates the effectiveness and benefits of our proposed learning based human robot collaboration. version:1
arxiv-1703-05376 | Two-Timescale Stochastic Approximation Convergence Rates with Applications to Reinforcement Learning | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.05376 | id:1703.05376 author:Gal Dalal, Balazs Szorenyi, Gugan Thoppe, Shie Mannor category:cs.AI  published:2017-03-15 summary:Two-timescale Stochastic Approximation (SA) algorithms are widely used in Reinforcement Learning (RL). Their iterates have two parts that are updated with distinct stepsizes. In this work we provide a recipe for analyzing two-timescale SA. Using it, we develop the first convergence rate result for them. From this result we extract key insights on stepsize selection. As an application, we obtain convergence rates for two-timescale RL algorithms such as GTD(0), GTD2, and TDC. version:2
arxiv-1511-06033 | EIGENREC: An Efficient and Scalable Latent Factor Family for Top-N Recommendation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.06033 | id:1511.06033 author:Athanasios N. Nikolakopoulos, Vassilis Kalantzis, John D. Garofalakis category:cs.IR cs.DB cs.DC cs.NA cs.SI H.3.3; H.2.8; G.1.3  published:2015-11-19 summary:Sparsity presents one of the major challenges of Collaborative Filtering. Graph-based methods are known to alleviate its effects, however their use is often computationally prohibitive; Latent-Factor methods, on the other hand, present a reasonable and viable alternative. In this paper, we introduce EigenRec; a versatile and efficient Latent-Factor framework for Top-N Recommendations, that generalizes the well-known PureSVD algorithm (a) providing intuition about its inner structure, (b) paving the path towards improving its efficacy and, at the same time, (c) reducing its complexity. One of our central goals in this work is to ensure the applicability of our method in realistic big-data scenarios. To this end, we propose building our model using a computationally efficient Lanczos-based procedure, we discuss its Parallel Implementation in distributed computing environments, and we verify its favourable performance using real-world datasets. Furthermore, from a qualitative point of view, a comprehensive set of experiments on the MovieLens and the Yahoo!R2Music datasets based on widely applied performance metrics, indicate that EigenRec outperforms several state-of-the-art algorithms, in terms of Standard and Long-Tail recommendation accuracy, exhibiting low susceptibility to sparsity, even in its most extreme manifestations -- the Cold-Start problems. version:2
arxiv-1705-11147 | Extreme-Scale De Novo Genome Assembly | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.11147 | id:1705.11147 author:Evangelos Georganas, Steven Hofmeyr, Rob Egan, Aydin Buluc, Leonid Oliker, Daniel Rokhsar, Katherine Yelick category:cs.DC  published:2017-05-31 summary:De novo whole genome assembly reconstructs genomic sequence from short, overlapping, and potentially erroneous DNA segments and is one of the most important computations in modern genomics. This work presents HipMER, a high-quality end-to-end de novo assembler designed for extreme scale analysis, via efficient parallelization of the Meraculous code. Genome assembly software has many components, each of which stresses different components of a computer system. This chapter explains the computational challenges involved in each step of the HipMer pipeline, the key distributed data structures, and communication costs in detail. We present performance results of assembling the human genome and the large hexaploid wheat genome on large supercomputers up to tens of thousands of cores. version:1
arxiv-1504-08193 | Push sum with transmission failures | http://arxiv.org/abs/1504.08193 | id:1504.08193 author:Balázs Gerencsér, Julien M. Hendrickx category:cs.DC math.PR  published:2015-04-30 summary:The push-sum algorithm allows distributed computing of the average on a directed graph, and is particularly relevant when one is restricted to one-way and/or asynchronous communications. We investigate its behavior in the presence of unreliable communication channels where messages can be lost. We show that exponential convergence still holds and deduce fundamental properties that implicitly describe the distribution of the final value obtained. We analyze the error of the final common value we get for the essential case of two nodes, both theoretically and numerically. We provide performance comparison with a standard consensus algorithm. version:3
arxiv-1706-02591 | Dynamic Discovery of Type Classes and Relations in Semantic Web Data | http://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02591 | id:1706.02591 author:Serkan Ayvaz, Mehmet Aydar category:cs.DB cs.AI  published:2017-05-31 summary:The continuing development of Semantic Web technologies and the increasing user adoption in the recent years have accelerated the progress incorporating explicit semantics with data on the Web. With the rapidly growing RDF (Resource Description Framework) data on the Semantic Web, processing large semantic graph data have become more challenging. Constructing a summary graph structure from the raw RDF can help obtain semantic type relations and reduce the computational complexity for graph processing purposes. In this paper, we addressed the problem of graph summarization in RDF graphs, and we proposed an approach for building summary graph structures automatically from RDF graph data. Moreover, we introduced a measure to help discover optimum class dissimilarity thresholds and an effective method to discover the type classes automatically. In future work, we plan to investigate further improvement options on the scalability of the proposed method. version:1
arxiv-1705-10998 | The Atari Grand Challenge Dataset | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10998 | id:1705.10998 author:Vitaly Kurin, Sebastian Nowozin, Katja Hofmann, Lucas Beyer, Bastian Leibe category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-31 summary:Recent progress in Reinforcement Learning (RL), fueled by its combination, with Deep Learning has enabled impressive results in learning to interact with complex virtual environments, yet real-world applications of RL are still scarce. A key limitation is data efficiency, with current state-of-the-art approaches requiring millions of training samples. A promising way to tackle this problem is to augment RL with learning from human demonstrations. However, human demonstration data is not yet readily available. This hinders progress in this direction. The present work addresses this problem as follows. We (i) collect and describe a large dataset of human Atari 2600 replays -- the largest and most diverse such data set publicly released to date, (ii) illustrate an example use of this dataset by analyzing the relation between demonstration quality and imitation learning performance, and (iii) outline possible research directions that are opened up by our work. version:1
arxiv-1705-10948 | Distributed Simulation Platform for Autonomous Driving | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10948 | id:1705.10948 author:Jie Tang, Shaoshan Liu, Chao Wang, Quan Wang category:cs.DC cs.RO  published:2017-05-31 summary:Autonomous vehicle safety and reliability are the paramount requirements when developing autonomous vehicles. These requirements are guaranteed by massive functional and performance tests. Conducting these tests on real vehicles is extremely expensive and time consuming, and thus it is imperative to develop a simulation platform to perform these tasks. For simulation, we can utilize the Robot Operating System (ROS) for data playback to test newly developed algorithms. However, due to the massive amount of simulation data, performing simulation on single machines is not practical. Hence, a high-performance distributed simulation platform is a critical piece in autonomous driving development. In this paper we present our experiences of building a production distributed autonomous driving simulation platform. This platform is built upon Spark distributed framework, for distributed computing management, and ROS, for data playback simulations. version:1
arxiv-1705-10945 | Real-Time Robot Localization, Vision, and Speech Recognition on Nvidia Jetson TX1 | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10945 | id:1705.10945 author:Jie Tang, Yong Ren, Shaoshan Liu category:cs.RO  published:2017-05-31 summary:Robotics systems are complex, often consisted of basic services including SLAM for localization and mapping, Convolution Neural Networks for scene understanding, and Speech Recognition for user interaction, etc. Meanwhile, robots are mobile and usually have tight energy constraints, integrating these services onto an embedded platform with around 10 W of power consumption is critical to the proliferation of mobile robots. In this paper, we present a case study on integrating real-time localization, vision, and speech recognition services on a mobile SoC, Nvidia Jetson TX1, within about 10 W of power envelope. In addition, we explore whether offloading some of the services to cloud platform can lead to further energy efficiency while meeting the real-time requirements version:1
arxiv-1705-09231 | Neural Attribute Machines for Program Generation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.09231 | id:1705.09231 author:Matthew Amodio, Swarat Chaudhuri, Thomas Reps category:cs.AI cs.PL  published:2017-05-25 summary:Recurrent neural networks have achieved remarkable success at generating sequences with complex structures, thanks to advances that include richer embeddings of input and cures for vanishing gradients. Trained only on sequences from a known grammar, though, they can still struggle to learn rules and constraints of the grammar. Neural Attribute Machines (NAMs) are equipped with a logical machine that represents the underlying grammar, which is used to teach the constraints to the neural machine by (i) augmenting the input sequence, and (ii) optimizing a custom loss function. Unlike traditional RNNs, NAMs are exposed to the grammar, as well as samples from the language of the grammar. During generation, NAMs make significantly fewer violations of the constraints of the underlying grammar than RNNs trained only on samples from the language of the grammar. version:2
arxiv-1705-10932 | Design of Deep Neural Networks as Add-on Blocks for Improving Impromptu Trajectory Tracking | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10932 | id:1705.10932 author:Siqi Zhou, Mohamed K. Helwa, Angela P. Schoellig category:cs.RO  published:2017-05-31 summary:This paper provides guidelines for designing deep neural networks (DNNs) as add-on blocks to baseline feedback control loops to enhance tracking performance on arbitrary, desired trajectories. The DNNs are trained to adapt the reference signals to the feedback control loop. The goal is to achieve a unity map between the desired and actual outputs. In previous work, the efficacy of this approach was demonstrated on quadrotors. On 30 unseen trajectories, the proposed DNN approach achieved an average error reduction of 43%, compared to the baseline feedback controller. Motivated by these results, this work aims to provide platform-independent design guidelines for the proposed DNN-enhanced control architecture. In particular, we provide specific guidelines for the DNN feature selection, derive conditions for when the proposed approach is effective, and show in which cases training efficiency can be further increased. version:1
arxiv-1705-10907 | Provably Safe Robot Navigation with Obstacle Uncertainty | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10907 | id:1705.10907 author:Brian Axelrod, Leslie Pack Kaelbling, Tomás Lozano-Pérez category:cs.RO  published:2017-05-31 summary:As drones and autonomous cars become more widespread it is becoming increasingly important that robots can operate safely under realistic conditions. The noisy information fed into real systems means that robots must use estimates of the environment to plan navigation. Efficiently guaranteeing that the resulting motion plans are safe under these circumstances has proved difficult. We examine how to guarantee that a trajectory or policy is safe with only imperfect observations of the environment. We examine the implications of various mathematical formalisms of safety and arrive at a mathematical notion of safety of a long-term execution, even when conditioned on observational information. We present efficient algorithms that can prove that trajectories or policies are safe with much tighter bounds than in previous work. Notably, the complexity of the environment does not affect our methods ability to evaluate if a trajectory or policy is safe. We then use these safety checking methods to design a safe variant of the RRT planning algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1705-10898 | Towards Learned Clauses Database Reduction Strategies Based on Dominance Relationship | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10898 | id:1705.10898 author:Jerry Lonlac, Engelbert Mephu Nguifo category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-31 summary:Clause Learning is one of the most important components of a conflict driven clause learning (CDCL) SAT solver that is effective on industrial instances. Since the number of learned clauses is proved to be exponential in the worse case, it is necessary to identify the most relevant clauses to maintain and delete the irrelevant ones. As reported in the literature, several learned clauses deletion strategies have been proposed. However the diversity in both the number of clauses to be removed at each step of reduction and the results obtained with each strategy creates confusion to determine which criterion is better. Thus, the problem to select which learned clauses are to be removed during the search step remains very challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to identify the most relevant learned clauses without favoring or excluding any of the proposed measures, but by adopting the notion of dominance relationship among those measures. Our approach bypasses the problem of the diversity of results and reaches a compromise between the assessments of these measures. Furthermore, the proposed approach also avoids another non-trivial problem which is the amount of clauses to be deleted at each reduction of the learned clause database. version:1
arxiv-1702-02934 | Comprehensive Survey of Evolutionary Morphological Soft Robotic Systems | http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.02934 | id:1702.02934 author:Reem J. Alattas, Sarosh Patel, Tarek M. Sobh category:cs.RO  published:2017-02-09 summary:Evolutionary robotics aims to automatically design autonomous adaptive morphological robots that can evolve to accomplish a specific task while adapting to environmental changes. Soft robotics have demonstrated the feasibility of evolutionary robotics for the synthesis of robots control and morphology. The motivation of developing evolutionary soft computing techniques to that can generate task oriented structures for morphological robots makes the domain of soft robotics worthy of serious investigation and research, and hence this article summarizes an important volume of research for a computational and software architecture perspective. This paper reviews the literature and discusses various aspects of evolutionary robotics including the application on morphological soft robots to allow self assembly, self reconfiguration, self repair, and self reproduction. Then, major milestones are outlined along with important morphological soft robotic prototypes due to their importance in the field. Finally, the current state of the art in the field is assessed. version:5
arxiv-1703-01286 | A Layered Architecture for Erasure-Coded Consistent Distributed Storage | http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01286 | id:1703.01286 author:Kishori M. Konwar, N. Prakash, Nancy Lynch, Muriel Medard category:cs.DC cs.IT math.IT  published:2017-03-03 summary:Motivated by emerging applications to the edge computing paradigm, we introduce a two-layer erasure-coded fault-tolerant distributed storage system offering atomic access for read and write operations. In edge computing, clients interact with an edge-layer of servers that is geographically near; the edge-layer in turn interacts with a back-end layer of servers. The edge-layer provides low latency access and temporary storage for client operations, and uses the back-end layer for persistent storage. Our algorithm, termed Layered Data Storage (LDS) algorithm, offers several features suitable for edge-computing systems, works under asynchronous message-passing environments, supports multiple readers and writers, and can tolerate $f_1 < n_1/2$ and $f_2 < n_2/3$ crash failures in the two layers having $n_1$ and $n_2$ servers, respectively. We use a class of erasure codes known as regenerating codes for storage of data in the back-end layer. The choice of regenerating codes, instead of popular choices like Reed-Solomon codes, not only optimizes the cost of back-end storage, but also helps in optimizing communication cost of read operations, when the value needs to be recreated all the way from the back-end. The two-layer architecture permits a modular implementation of atomicity and erasure-code protocols; the implementation of erasure-codes is mostly limited to interaction between the two layers. We prove liveness and atomicity of LDS, and also compute performance costs associated with read and write operations. Further, in a multi-object system running $N$ independent instances of LDS, where only a small fraction of the objects undergo concurrent accesses at any point during the execution, the overall storage cost is dominated by that of persistent storage in the back-end layer, and is given by $\Theta(N)$. version:2
arxiv-1705-08807 | When Will AI Exceed Human Performance? Evidence from AI Experts | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.08807 | id:1705.08807 author:Katja Grace, John Salvatier, Allan Dafoe, Baobao Zhang, Owain Evans category:cs.AI cs.CY  published:2017-05-24 summary:Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) will transform modern life by reshaping transportation, health, science, finance, and the military. To adapt public policy, we need to better anticipate these advances. Here we report the results from a large survey of machine learning researchers on their beliefs about progress in AI. Researchers predict AI will outperform humans in many activities in the next ten years, such as translating languages (by 2024), writing high-school essays (by 2026), driving a truck (by 2027), working in retail (by 2031), writing a bestselling book (by 2049), and working as a surgeon (by 2053). Researchers believe there is a 50% chance of AI outperforming humans in all tasks in 45 years and of automating all human jobs in 120 years, with Asian respondents expecting these dates much sooner than North Americans. These results will inform discussion amongst researchers and policymakers about anticipating and managing trends in AI. version:2
arxiv-1701-08317 | Plan Explanations as Model Reconciliation: Moving Beyond Explanation as Soliloquy | http://arxiv.org/abs/1701.08317 | id:1701.08317 author:Tathagata Chakraborti, Sarath Sreedharan, Yu Zhang, Subbarao Kambhampati category:cs.AI  published:2017-01-28 summary:When AI systems interact with humans in the loop, they are often called on to provide explanations for their plans and behavior. Past work on plan explanations primarily involved the AI system explaining the correctness of its plan and the rationale for its decision in terms of its own model. Such soliloquy is wholly inadequate in most realistic scenarios where the humans have domain and task models that differ significantly from that used by the AI system. We posit that the explanations are best studied in light of these differing models. In particular, we show how explanation can be seen as a "model reconciliation problem" (MRP), where the AI system in effect suggests changes to the human's model, so as to make its plan be optimal with respect to that changed human model. We will study the properties of such explanations, present algorithms for automatically computing them, and evaluate the performance of the algorithms. version:5
arxiv-1705-10868 | Lifelong Multi-Agent Path Finding for Online Pickup and Delivery Tasks | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10868 | id:1705.10868 author:Hang Ma, Jiaoyang Li, T. K. Satish Kumar, Sven Koenig category:cs.AI cs.MA cs.RO  published:2017-05-30 summary:The multi-agent path-finding (MAPF) problem has recently received a lot of attention. However, it does not capture important characteristics of many real-world domains, such as automated warehouses, where agents are constantly engaged with new tasks. In this paper, we therefore study a lifelong version of the MAPF problem, called the multi-agent pickup and delivery (MAPD) problem. In the MAPD problem, agents have to attend to a stream of delivery tasks in an online setting. One agent has to be assigned to each delivery task. This agent has to first move to a given pickup location and then to a given delivery location while avoiding collisions with other agents. We present two decoupled MAPD algorithms, Token Passing (TP) and Token Passing with Task Swaps (TPTS). Theoretically, we show that they solve all well-formed MAPD instances, a realistic subclass of MAPD instances. Experimentally, we compare them against a centralized strawman MAPD algorithm without this guarantee in a simulated warehouse system. TP can easily be extended to a fully distributed MAPD algorithm and is the best choice when real-time computation is of primary concern since it remains efficient for MAPD instances with hundreds of agents and tasks. TPTS requires limited communication among agents and balances well between TP and the centralized MAPD algorithm. version:1
arxiv-1705-10851 | Estimating Human Intent for Physical Human-Robot Co-Manipulation | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10851 | id:1705.10851 author:Eric C. Townsend, Erich A Mielke, David Wingate, Marc D. Killpack category:cs.RO  published:2017-05-30 summary:Human teams can be exceptionally efficient at adapting and collaborating during manipulation tasks using shared mental models. However, the same shared mental models that can be used by humans to perform robust low-level force and motion control during collaborative manipulation tasks are non-existent for robots. For robots to perform collaborative tasks with people naturally and efficiently, understanding and predicting human intent is necessary. However, humans are difficult to predict and model. We have completed an exploratory study recording motion and force for 20 human dyads moving an object in tandem in order to better understand how they move and how their movement can be predicted. In this paper, we show how past motion data can be used to predict human intent. In order to predict human intent, which we equate with the human team's velocity for a short time horizon, we used a neural network. Using the previous 150 time steps at a rate of 200 Hz, human intent can be predicted for the next 50 time steps with a mean squared error of 0.02 (m/s)^2. We also show that human intent can be estimated in a human-robot dyad. This work is an important first step in enabling future work of integrating human intent estimation on a robot controller to execute a short-term collaborative trajectory. version:1
arxiv-1705-10834 | Experience Replay Using Transition Sequences | http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10834 | id:1705.10834 author:Thommen George Karimpanal, Roland Bouffanais category:cs.AI  published:2017-05-30 summary:Experience replay is one of the most commonly used approaches to improve the sample efficiency of reinforcement learning algorithms. In this work, we propose an approach to select and replay sequences of transitions in order to accelerate the learning of a reinforcement learning agent in an off-policy setting. In addition to selecting appropriate sequences, we also artificially construct transition sequences using information gathered from previous agent-environment interactions. These sequences, when replayed, allow value function information to trickle down to larger sections of the state/state-action space, thereby making the most of the agent's experience. We demonstrate our approach on modified versions of standard reinforcement learning tasks such as the mountain car and puddle world problems and empirically show that it enables better learning of value functions as compared to other forms of experience replay. Further, we briefly discuss some of the possible extensions to this work, as well as applications and situations where this approach could be particularly useful. version:1
