BIOE101 | Systems Biology (BIOE 210) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE101 | instructors:Covert, M. (PI); Ruggero, N. (TA) description:Complex biological behaviors through the integration of computational modeling and molecular biology. Topics: reconstructing biological networks from high-throughput data and knowledge bases. Network properties. Computational modeling of network behaviors at the small and large scale. Using model predictions to guide an experimental program. Robustness, noise, and cellular variation. Prerequisites: CME 102; BIO 41, BIO 42; or consent of instructor.
BIOE103 | Systems Physiology and Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE103 | instructors:Deisseroth, K. (PI); Rogers, K. (PI); Taylor, C. (PI); Anderson, E. (TA); Maheshwari, A. (TA); Shunhavanich, P. (TA) description:Physiology of intact human tissues, organs, and organ systems in health and disease, and bioengineering tools used (or needed) to probe and model these physiological systems. Topics: Clinical physiology, network physiology and system design/plasticity, diseases and interventions (major syndromes, simulation, and treatment, instrumentation for intervention, stimulation, diagnosis, and prevention), and new technologies including tissue engineering and optogenetics.  Discussions of pathology of these systems in a clinical-case based format, with a view towards identifying unmet clinical needs.  Learning computational skills that not only enable simulation of these systems but also apply more broadly to biomedical data analysis. Prerequisites: CME 102; PHYSICS 41; BIO 41, 42
BIOE103B | Systems Physiology and Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE103B | instructors:Deisseroth, K. (PI); Rogers, K. (PI); Taylor, C. (PI) description:*ONLINE Offering of BIOE103.  This pilot class, BIOE103B, is an entirely online offering with the same content, learning goals, and prerequisites as BIOE103.  Students attend class by watching videos and completing assignments remotely.  Students may attend recitation and office hours in person, but cannot attend the BIOE103 in-person lecture due to room capacity restraints.*  Physiology of intact human tissues, organs, and organ systems in health and disease, and bioengineering tools used (or needed) to probe and model these physiological systems. Topics: Clinical physiology, network physiology and system design/plasticity, diseases and interventions (major syndromes, simulation, and treatment, instrumentation for intervention, stimulation, diagnosis, and prevention), and new technologies including tissue engineering and optogenetics.  Discussions of pathology of these systems in a clinical-case based format, with a view towards identifying unmet clinical needs.  Learning computational skills that not only enable simulation of these systems but also apply more broadly to biomedical data analysis. Prerequisites: MATH 41, 42; CME 102; PHY 41; BIO 41, 42; strongly recommended PHY 43; or instructor approval.
BIOE122 | Biosecurity and Bioterrorism Response (EMED 122, PUBLPOL 122) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE122 | instructors: description:Overview of the most pressing biosecurity issues facing the world today. Guest lecturers have included former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, former Special Assistant on BioSecurity to Presidents Clinton and Bush Jr. Dr. Ken Bernard, Chief Medical Officer of the Homeland Security Department Dr. Alex Garza, eminent scientists, innovators and physicians in the field, and leaders of relevant technology companies. How well the US and global healthcare systems are prepared to withstand a pandemic or a bioterrorism attack, how the medical/healthcare field, government, and the technology sectors are involved in biosecurity and pandemic or bioterrorism response and how they interface, the rise of synthetic biology with its promises and threats, global bio-surveillance, making the medical diagnosis, isolation, containment, hospital surge capacity, stockpiling and distribution of countermeasures, food and agriculture biosecurity, new promising technologies for detection of bio-threats and countermeasures. Open to medical, graduate, and undergraduate students. No prior background in biology necessary. 4 units for twice weekly attendance (Mon. and Wed.); additional 1 unit for writing a research paper for 5 units total maximum. PLEASE NOTE: This class will meet for the first time on Wednesday, March 30.
BIOE123 | Biomedical System Prototyping Lab | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE123 | instructors:Rhoades, C. (TA) description:The Bioengineering System Prototyping Laboratory is a fast-paced, team-based system engineering experience, in which teams of 2-3 students design and build a fermenter that meets a set of common requirements along with a set of unique team-determined requirements.  Students learn-by-doing hands-on skills in electronics and mechanical design and fabrication.  Teams also develop process skills and an engineering mindset by aligning specifications with requirements, developing output metrics and measuring performance, and creating project proposals and plans.  The course culminates in demonstration of a fully functioning fermenter that meets the teams' self-determined metrics.nnLearning goals:n1.	Hands-on skills and experience with design, fabrication, integration, and characterization of practical electronic and mechanical hardware systems relevant to Bioengineeringn2.	Practice using modern rapid prototyping and device equipment and techniques, including CAD, 3D printing,  laser cutting, microcontrollers, design thinkingn3.	Experience working as a team to build an end-to-end functional biomedical system (e.g., a fermenter)nnPrerequisites: BIOE 41 and Matlab recommended.
BIOE131 | Ethics in Bioengineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE131 | instructors:Magnus, D. (PI) description:Bioengineering focuses on the development and application of new technologies in the biology and medicine. These technologies often have powerful effects on living systems at the microscopic and macroscopic level. They can provide great benefit to society, but they also can be used in dangerous or damaging ways. These effects may be positive or negative, and so it is critical that bioengineers understand the basic principles of ethics when thinking about how the technologies they develop can and should be applied. On a personal level, every bioengineer should understand the basic principles of ethical behavior in the professional setting. This course will involve substantial writing, and will use case-study methodology to introduce both societal and personal ethical principles, with a focus on practical applications.
BIOE141A | Senior Capstone Design I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE141A | instructors:Fan, R. (PI); Rogers, K. (PI); Shih, J. (PI); Swartz, J. (PI); Venook, R. (PI); Wall, J. (PI); Gegg, C. (TA); Kintzing, J. (TA); Mehta, N. (TA); Ng, E. (TA) description:Lecture/Lab. First course of two-quarter capstone sequence. Team based project introduces students to the process of designing new biological technologies to address societal needs. Topics include methods for validating societal needs, brainstorming, concept selection, and the engineering design process. First quarter deliverable is a design for the top concept. Second quarter involves implementation and testing. Guest lectures and practical demonstrations are incorporated. Prerequisites: BIOE 123 and BIOE 44. This course is open only to seniors in the undergraduate Bioengineering program.
BIOE141B | Senior Capstone Design II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE141B | instructors:Yang, F. (PI); Nagasawa, M. (TA) description:Lecture/Lab. Second course of two-quarter capstone sequence. Team based project introduces students to the process of designing new biological technologies to address societal needs. Emphasis is on implementing and testing the design from the first quarter with the at least one round of prototype iteration.  Guest lectures and practical demonstrations are incorporated. Prerequisites: BIOE123 and BIOE44. This course is open only to seniors in the undergraduate Bioengineering program.nIMPORTANT NOTE: class meets in Shriram 112.
BIOE158 | Soft Matter in Biomedical Devices, Microelectronics, and Everyday Life (CHEMENG 160, MATSCI 158) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE158 | instructors:Appel, E. (PI) description:The relationships between molecular structure, morphology, and the unique physical, chemical, and mechanical behavior of polymers and other types of ¿soft matter¿ are discussed. Topics include methods for preparing synthetic polymers and examination of how enthalpy and entropy determine conformation, solubility, mechanical behavior, microphase separation, crystallinity, glass transitions, elasticity, and linear viscoelasticity. Case studies covering polymers in biomedical devices and microelectronics will be covered. Prerequisites: ENG 50 or equivalent.
BIOE191 | Bioengineering Problems and Experimental Investigation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE191 | instructors:Altman, R. (PI); Andriacchi, T. (PI); Bammer, R. (PI); Barron, A. (PI); Batzoglou, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Bryant, Z. (PI); Butte, A. (PI); Camarillo, D. (PI); Carter, D. (PI); Cochran, J. (PI); Covert, M. (PI); Deisseroth, K. (PI); Delp, S. (PI); Endy, A. (PI); Fahrig, R. (PI); Feinstein, J. (PI); Fisher, D. (PI); Gambhir, S. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Goodman, S. (PI); Graves, E. (PI); Hargreaves, B. (PI); Heilshorn, S. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Krummel, T. (PI); Kuhl, E. (PI); Lee, J. (PI); Levenston, M. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Lin, M. (PI); Liphardt, J. (PI); Longaker, M. (PI); Moore, T. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Plevritis, S. (PI); Prakash, M. (PI); Qi, S. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Riedel-Kruse, I. (PI); Rogers, K. (PI); Sanger, T. (PI); Sapolsky, R. (PI); Schnitzer, M. (PI); Scott, M. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smolke, C. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Swartz, J. (PI); Taylor, C. (PI); Venook, R. (PI); Wang, P. (PI); Wu, J. (PI); Yang, F. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:Directed study and research for undergraduates on a subject of mutual interest to student and instructor. Prerequisites: consent of instructor and adviser. (Staff)
BIOE191X | Out-of-Department Advanced Research Laboratory in Bioengineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE191X | instructors:Barres, B. (PI); Blau, H. (PI); Diehn, M. (PI); Elias, J. (PI); Han, M. (PI); Hanawalt, P. (PI); Heilshorn, S. (PI); Mochly-Rosen, D. (PI); Nusse, R. (PI); Okamura, A. (PI); Relman, D. (PI); Shrager, J. (PI); Weissman, I. (PI); Wu, J. (PI); Yang, Y. (PI) description:Individual research by arrangement with out-of-department instructors. Credit for 191X is restricted to declared Bioengineering majors pursuing honors and requires department approval. See http://bioengineering.stanford.edu/education/undergraduate.html for additional information. May be repeated for credit.
BIOE196 | INTERACTIVE MEDIA AND GAMES (BIOPHYS 196) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE196 | instructors:Riedel-Kruse, I. (PI) description:Interactive media and games increasingly pervade and shape our society. In addition to their dominant roles in entertainment, video games play growing roles in education, arts, and science. This seminar series brings together a diverse set of experts to provide interdisciplinary perspectives on these media regarding their history, technologies, scholarly research, industry, artistic value, and potential future.
BIOE201C | Diagnostic Devices Lab (BIOE 301C) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE201C | instructors: description:This course exposes students to the engineering principles and clinical application of medical devices through lectures and hands-on labs, performed in teams of two. Teams take measurements with these devices and fit their data to theory presented in the lecture. Devices covered include X-ray, CT, MRI, EEG, ECG, Ultrasound and BMI (Brain-machine interface). Prerequisites: BioE 103 or BioE 300B or EE 122B.
BIOE210 | Systems Biology (BIOE 101) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE210 | instructors:Covert, M. (PI); Ruggero, N. (TA) description:Complex biological behaviors through the integration of computational modeling and molecular biology. Topics: reconstructing biological networks from high-throughput data and knowledge bases. Network properties. Computational modeling of network behaviors at the small and large scale. Using model predictions to guide an experimental program. Robustness, noise, and cellular variation. Prerequisites: CME 102; BIO 41, BIO 42; or consent of instructor.
BIOE211 | Biophysics of Multi-cellular Systems and Amorphous Computing (BIOE 311, BIOPHYS 311, DBIO 211) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE211 | instructors: description:Provides an interdisciplinary perspective on the design, emergent behavior, and functionality of multi-cellular biological systems such as embryos, biofilms, and artificial tissues and their conceptual relationship to amorphous computers. Students discuss relevant literature and introduced to and apply pertinent mathematical and biophysical modeling approaches to various aspect multi-cellular systems, furthermore carry out real biology experiments over the web. Specific topics include: (Morphogen) gradients; reaction-diffusion systems (Turing patterns); visco-elastic aspects and forces in tissues; morphogenesis; coordinated gene expression, genetic oscillators and synchrony; genetic networks; self-organization, noise, robustness, and evolvability; game theory; emergent behavior; criticality; symmetries; scaling; fractals; agent based modeling. The course is geared towards a broadly interested graduate and advanced undergraduates audience such as from bio / applied physics, computer science, developmental and systems biology, and bio / tissue / mechanical / electrical engineering. Prerequisites: Previous knowledge in one programming language - ideally Matlab - is recommended; undergraduate students benefit from BIOE 41, BIOE 42, or equivalent.
BIOE212 | Introduction to Biomedical Informatics Research Methodology (BIOMEDIN 212, CS 272, GENE 212) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE212 | instructors:Altman, R. (PI) description:Capstone Biomedical Informatics (BMI) experience. Hands-on software building. Student teams conceive, design, specify, implement, evaluate, and report on a software project in the domain of biomedicine. Creating written proposals, peer review, providing status reports, and preparing final reports. Issues related to research reproducibility. Guest lectures from professional biomedical informatics systems builders on issues related to the process of project management. Software engineering basics. Because the team projects start in the first week of class, attendance that week is strongly recommended. Prerequisites: BIOMEDIN 210 or 211 or 214 or 217. Preference to BMI graduate students. Consent of instructor required.
BIOE214 | Representations and Algorithms for Computational Molecular Biology (BIOMEDIN 214, CS 274, GENE 214) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE214 | instructors:Altman, R. (PI); Han, L. (TA); Haynes, W. (TA); Torres, J. (TA) description:Topics: introduction to bioinformatics and computational biology, algorithms for alignment of biological sequences and structures, computing with strings, phylogenetic tree construction, hidden Markov models, basic structural computations on proteins, protein structure prediction, protein threading techniques, homology modeling, molecular dynamics and energy minimization, statistical analysis of 3D biological data, integration of data sources, knowledge representation and controlled terminologies for molecular biology, microarray analysis, machine learning (clustering and classification), and natural language text processing. Prerequisite: CS 106B; recommended: CS161; consent of instructor for 3 units.
BIOE217 | Translational Bioinformatics (BIOMEDIN 217, CS 275) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE217 | instructors:Dumontier, M. (PI); Gevaert, O. (PI); Wall, D. (PI); Calderon, D. (TA); Greenside, P. (TA); Kim, D. (TA) description:Computational methods for the translation of biomedical data into diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic applications in medicine. Topics: multi-scale omics data generation and analysis, utility and limitations of public biomedical resources, machine learning and data mining, issues and opportunities in drug discovery, and mobile/digital health solutions. Case studies and course project. Prerequisites: programming ability at the level of CS 106A and familiarity with biology and statistics.
BIOE220 | Introduction to Imaging and Image-based Human Anatomy (RAD 220) | http://BIOE220.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, K. (PI); Vasanawala, S. (PI); Zaharchuk, G. (PI); Koundinyan, S. (TA) description:Focus on learning the fundamentals of each imaging modality including X-ray Imaging, Ultrasound, CT, and MRI, to learn normal human anatomy and how it appears on medical images, to learn the relative strengths of the modalities, and to answer, "What am I looking at?" Course website: http://bioe220.stanford.edu
BIOE221 | Physics and Engineering of Radionuclide Imaging (RAD 221) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE221 | instructors:Levin, C. (PI); Pratx, G. (PI) description:Physics, instrumentation, and algorithms for positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).  Topics include basic physics of photon emission and detection, electronics, system design, strategies for tomographic image reconstruction, data correction algorithms, methods of image quantification, and image quality assessment, and current developments in the field.  Prerequisites: A year of university mathematics and physics.
BIOE221G | Gut Microbiota in Health and Disease (MI 221) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE221G | instructors: description:Preference to graduate students. Focus is on the human gut microbiota. Students enrolling for 3 units receive instruction on computational approaches to analyze microbiome data and must complete a related project.
BIOE222 | Instrumentation and Applications for Multi-modality Molecular Imaging of Living Subjects (RAD 222) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE222 | instructors:Levin, C. (PI); Moseley, M. (PI) description:Focuses on instruments, algorithms and other technologies for imaging of cellular and molecular processes in living subjects. Introduces preclinical and clinical molecular imaging modalities, including strategies for molecular imaging using PET, SPECT, MRI, Ultrasound, Optics, and Photoacoustics.  Covers basics of instrumentation physics, the origin and properties of the signal generation, and image data quantification.
BIOE223 | Physics and Engineering of X-Ray Computed Tomography (RAD 223) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE223 | instructors:Fahrig, R. (PI); Hsieh, S. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI) description:CT scanning geometries, production of x-rays, interactions of x-rays with matter, 2D and 3D CT reconstruction, image presentation, image quality performance parameters, system components, image artirfacts, radiation dose. Prerequisites: differential and integral calculus. Knowledge of Fourier transforms (EE261) recommended.
BIOE224 | Probes and Applications for Multi-modality Molecular Imaging of Living Subjects (RAD 224) | http://BIOE224.stanford.edu | instructors:Levin, C. (PI); Moseley, M. (PI) description:Focuses on molecular contrast agents (a.k.a. "probes") that interrogate and target specific cellular and molecular disease mechanisms. Covers the ideal characteristics of molecular probes and how to optimize their design for use as effective imaging reagents that enables readout of specific steps in biological pathways and reveal the nature of disease through noninvasive imaging assays. Prerequisites: none.
BIOE225 | Ultrasound Imaging and Therapeutic Applications (RAD 225) | http://BIOE225.stanford.edu | instructors:Dahl, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI) description:Covers the basic concepts of ultrasound imaging including acoustic properties of biological tissues, transducer hardware, beam formation, and clinical imaging.  Also includes the therapeutic applications of ultrasound including thermal and mechanical effects, visualization of the temperature and radiation force with MRI, tissue assessment with MRI and ultrasound, and ultrasound-enhanced drug delivery. Course website: http://bioe225.stanford.edu
BIOE227 | Functional MRI Methods | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE227 | instructors:Glover, G. (PI) description:(Same as RAD 227, BIOPHYS 227) Basics of functional magnetic resonance neuroimaging, including data acquisition, analysis, and experimental design. Journal club sections. Cognitive neuroscience and clinical applications. Prerequisites: basic physics, mathematics; neuroscience recommended.
BIOE229 | Advanced Research Topics in Multi-modality Molecular Imaging of Living Subjects | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE229 | instructors: description:Covers advanced topics and controversies in molecular imaging in the understanding of biology and disease. Lectures will include discussion on instrumentation, probes and bioassays. Topics will address unmet needs for visualization and quantification of molecular pathways in biology as well as for diagnosis and disease management. Areas of unmet clinical needs include those in oncology, neurology, cardiovascular medicine and musculoskeletal diseases. The aim is to identify important problems and controversies in a field and address them by providing background and relevance through review of the relevant primary literature, and then proposing and evaluating innovative imaging strategies that are designed to address the problem. The organization of lectures is similar to the thought process that is necessary for writing an NIH grant proposal in which aims are proposed and supported by background and relevance. The innovation of proposed approaches will be highlighted. An aim of the course is to inform students on how to creatively think about a problem and propose a solution focusing on the key elements of writing a successful grant proposal. Prerequisites: none.
BIOE238 | Principles and Tools for Metrology in Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE238 | instructors: description:A practical introduction to the science of measurement. Emphasis is on the tools used to parse a biological measurement problem. Students will learn to identify and quantitatively address the critical sources of variability and bias using the core concepts of uncertainty, traceability, and validation. Case studies will illustrate use of metrology in current and emergent bioscience and engineering applications.
BIOE244 | Advanced Frameworks and Approaches for Engineering Integrated Genetic Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE244 | instructors: description:Concepts and techniques for the design and implementation of engineered genetic systems.  Topics covered include the quantitative exploration of tools that support (a) molecular component engineering, (b) abstraction and composition of functional genetic devices, (c) use of control and dynamical systems theory in device and systems design, (d) treatment of molecular "noise", (e) integration of DNA-encoded programs within cellular chassis, (f) designing for evolution, and (g) the use of standards in measurement, genetic layout architecture, and data exchange. Prerequisites: CME104, CME106, CHEM 33, BIO41, BIO42, BIOE41, BIOE42, and BIOE44 (or equivalents), or permission of the instructors.
BIOE260 | Tissue Engineering (ORTHO 260) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE260 | instructors:Yang, F. (PI); Lee, S. (TA) description:Principles of tissue engineering and design strategies for practical applications for tissue repair. Topics include tissue morphogenesis, stem cells, biomaterials, controlled drug and gene delivery, and paper discussions. Students will learn skills for lab research through interactive lectures, paper discussions and research proposal development. Students work in small teams to work on develop research proposal for authentic tissue engineering problems. Lab sessions will teach techniques for culturing cells in 3D, as well as fabricating and characterizing hydrogels as 3D cell niche.
BIOE273 | BIODESIGN FOR MOBILE HEALTH (MED 273) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE273 | instructors:Yock, P. (PI); Zanchi, M. (PI) description:This Biodesign¿s experiential, multidisciplinary and diverse three-unit course focuses on the rapidly developing mobile health sector, with emphasis on the process of creating innovative technology solutions to mobile health needs. In this context, mobile health (mHealth) refers broadly to the delivery of health services and information enabled by mobile apps and technologies including sensors, wearables, mobile phones and other connected, mobile devices.nnInnovations in this sector seek to improve access to affordable, high-quality care by enabling consumers to take greater control of their health, shifting the focus from ¿sick care¿ to ¿health improvement¿ and prevention, creating new ways to manage aging and chronic conditions, moving care from the hospital into the home, or improving treatment options by providing measurable clinical outcomes for individuals and populations. Opportunities exist across the entire cycle of care, from wellness to acute and chronic diseases to care at the end of life.nnBioE 273 / Med 273 ¿Biodesign for Mobile Health¿ draws attention to mobile health as an area of needs (of patients, consumers and caregivers). The goal is to teach the innovation process that meets them through the understanding of relevant and timely industry-wide perspectives. To this goal, the course examines the forces that are driving needs in the space, discusses the opportunities and challenges that characterize the mobile health innovation landscape, and highlights the technologies, design considerations, policy initiatives, delivery models and companies that are enabling the new service and information delivery paradigms.nnOver 50 expert guests from the mobile health industry and entrepreneurial community join Faculty and researchers from Stanford University and others as panelists, speakers and mentors in interactive sessions and team activities. In a collaborative environment, students work in project teams with mentors and coaches, leading to a final presentation of their needs and concept solutions to an expert panel. The awarded best-in-class team receives an award and the opportunity to continue their project during the ¿Biodesign for Mobile Health Immersion Program.¿
BIOE279 | Computational Biology: Structure and Organization of Biomolecules and Cells (BIOMEDIN 279, BIOPHYS 279, CME 279, CS 279) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE279 | instructors:Dror, R. (PI) description:Computational techniques for investigating and designing the three-dimensional structure and dynamics of biomolecules and cells.  These computational methods play an increasingly important role in drug discovery, medicine, bioengineering, and molecular biology.  Course topics include protein structure prediction, protein design, drug screening, molecular simulation, cellular-level simulation, image analysis for microscopy, and methods for solving structures from crystallography and electron microscopy data.  Prerequisites: elementary programming background (CS 106A or equivalent) and an introductory course in biology or biochemistry.
BIOE281 | Biomechanics of Movement (ME 281) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE281 | instructors:Delp, S. (PI) description:Experimental techniques to study human and animal movement including motion capture systems, EMG, force plates, medical imaging, and animation. The mechanical properties of muscle and tendon, and quantitative analysis of musculoskeletal geometry. Projects and demonstrations emphasize applications of mechanics in sports, orthopedics, and rehabilitation.
BIOE283 | Mechanotransduction in Cells and Tissues (BIOPHYS 244, ME 244) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE283 | instructors:Chaudhuri, O. (PI) description:Mechanical cues play a critical role in development, normal functioning of cells and tissues, and various diseases. This course will cover what is known about cellular mechanotransduction, or the processes by which living cells sense and respond to physical cues such as physiological forces or mechanical properties of the tissue microenvironment. Experimental techniques and current areas of active investigation will be highlighted.
BIOE285 | Computational Modeling in the Cardiovascular System (CME 285, ME 285) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE285 | instructors: description:This course introduces computational modeling methods for cardiovascular blood flow and physiology.  Topics in this course include analytical and computational methods for solutions of flow in deformable vessels, one-dimensional equations of blood flow, cardiovascular anatomy, lumped parameter models, vascular trees, scaling laws, biomechanics of the circulatory system, and 3D patient specific modeling with finite elements; course will provide an overview of the diagnosis and treatment of adult and congenital cardiovascular diseases and review recent research in the literature in a journal club format.  Students will use SimVascular software to do clinically-oriented projects in patient specific blood flow simulations.
BIOE291 | Principles and Practice of Optogenetics for Optical Control of Biological Tissues | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE291 | instructors:Deisseroth, K. (PI); Vesuna, S. (TA) description:Principles and practice of optical control of biological processes (optogenetics), emphasizing bioengineering approaches. Theoretical, historical, and current practice of the field. Requisite molecular-genetic, optoelectronic, behavioral, clinical, and ethical concepts, and mentored analysis and presentation of relevant papers. Final projects of research proposals and a laboratory component in BioX to provide hands-on training. Contact instructor before registering.
BIOE300A | Molecular and Cellular Bioengineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE300A | instructors: description:The molecular and cellular bases of life from an engineering perspective. Analysis and engineering of biomolecular structure and dynamics, enzyme function, molecular interactions, metabolic pathways, signal transduction, and cellular mechanics. Quantitative primary literature. Prerequisites: CHEM 171 and BIO 41 or equivalents; MATLAB or an equivalent programming language.
BIOE300B | Engineering Concepts Applied to Physiology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE300B | instructors:Covert, M. (PI) description:This course focuses on engineering approaches to quantifying, modeling and controlling the physiology and pathophysiology of complex systems, from the level of individual cells to tissue, organ and multi-organ systems.
BIOE301A | Molecular and Cellular Engineering Lab | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE301A | instructors:Kim, Y. (TA); Trevino, A. (TA) description:Preference to Bioengineering graduate students. Practical applications of biotechnology and molecular bioengineering including recombinant DNA techniques, molecular cloning, microbial cell growth and manipulation, and library screening. Emphasis is on experimental design and data analysis. Limited enrollment. Fall
BIOE301B | Clinical Needs and Technology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE301B | instructors: description:The goal of this course is to introduce bioengineering students to medical technology as it is used in current clinical practice, in the modern tertiary care, subspecialty hospital.  Half of the course will be devoted to labs, in which small groups of students participate in hands-on experiences using advanced clinical technology in areas such as medical imaging, robotic surgery, and minimally invasive diagnosis and treatment. The second half of the course brings pairs of students and clinical faculty mentors together for a more in-depth, focused exposure to clinical care in one specific area. Final grades will be based on attendance, and presentations made by each pair of student to the class about their mentoring experience.
BIOE301C | Diagnostic Devices Lab (BIOE 201C) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE301C | instructors: description:This course exposes students to the engineering principles and clinical application of medical devices through lectures and hands-on labs, performed in teams of two. Teams take measurements with these devices and fit their data to theory presented in the lecture. Devices covered include X-ray, CT, MRI, EEG, ECG, Ultrasound and BMI (Brain-machine interface). Prerequisites: BioE 103 or BioE 300B or EE 122B.
BIOE311 | Biophysics of Multi-cellular Systems and Amorphous Computing (BIOE 211, BIOPHYS 311, DBIO 211) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE311 | instructors: description:Provides an interdisciplinary perspective on the design, emergent behavior, and functionality of multi-cellular biological systems such as embryos, biofilms, and artificial tissues and their conceptual relationship to amorphous computers. Students discuss relevant literature and introduced to and apply pertinent mathematical and biophysical modeling approaches to various aspect multi-cellular systems, furthermore carry out real biology experiments over the web. Specific topics include: (Morphogen) gradients; reaction-diffusion systems (Turing patterns); visco-elastic aspects and forces in tissues; morphogenesis; coordinated gene expression, genetic oscillators and synchrony; genetic networks; self-organization, noise, robustness, and evolvability; game theory; emergent behavior; criticality; symmetries; scaling; fractals; agent based modeling. The course is geared towards a broadly interested graduate and advanced undergraduates audience such as from bio / applied physics, computer science, developmental and systems biology, and bio / tissue / mechanical / electrical engineering. Prerequisites: Previous knowledge in one programming language - ideally Matlab - is recommended; undergraduate students benefit from BIOE 41, BIOE 42, or equivalent.
BIOE313 | Neuromorphics: Brains in Silicon (EE 304) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE313 | instructors:Boahen, K. (PI) description:Neuromorphic systems run perceptual, cognitive and motor tasks in real-time on a network of highly interconnected nonlinear units. To maximize density and minimize energy, these units--like the brain's neurons--are heterogeneous and stochastic. The first half of the course covers learning algorithms that automatically synthesize network configurations to perform a desired computation on a given heterogeneous neural substrate. The second half of the course surveys system-on-a-chip architectures that efficiently realize highly interconnected networks and mixed analog-digital circuit designs that implement area and energy-efficient nonlinear units. Prerequisites: EE102A and EE108 are required; EE114 is recommended.
BIOE326A | In Vivo MR: SpinPhysics and Spectroscopy (RAD 226A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE326A | instructors:Spielman, D. (PI) description:Collections of independent identical nuclear spins are well described by the classical vector model of magnetic resonance imaging, however, interaction among spins, as occur in many in vivo processes, require a more complete description. This course develops the basic physics and engineering principles of these interactions with emphasis on current research questions and clinical spectroscopy applications. Prerequisite: EE396b; familiarity with MRI, linear algebra recommended.
BIOE326B | In Vivo MR: Relaxation Theory and Contrast Mechanisms (RAD 226B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE326B | instructors:Spielman, D. (PI) description:Principles of nuclear magnetic resonance relaxation theory as applicable to in vivo processes with an emphasis on medical imaging. Topics: physics and mathematics of relaxation, relaxation times in normal and diseased tissues, magnetization transfer contrast, chemical exchange saturation transfer, MRI contrast agents, and hyperpolarized 13C. Prerequisites: BIOE 22A
BIOE32Q | Bon Appétit, Marie Curie! The Science Behind Haute Cuisine | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE32Q | instructors: description:This seminar is for anyone who loves food, cooking or science! We will focus on the science and biology behind the techniques and the taste buds. Not a single lecture will pass by without a delicious opportunity - each weekly meeting will include not only lecture, but also a lab demonstration and a chance to prepare classic dishes that illustrate that day's scientific concepts.
BIOE337 | Organismic Biophysics and Living Soft-matter | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE337 | instructors: description:Integrated physical biology; from molecules to organisms. Tree of life, diversity of life forms. Multi-scale/hierarchical systems in biophysics, Hierarchical self-organization. Basic theory of squishy materials, colloidal physics. Phase transitions in living soft-matter. Experimental techniques in soft-matter physics. Active fluid models for living matter. Design of self-assembling and self-organizing, biomimetic supramolecular systems.
BIOE355 | Advanced Biochemical Engineering (CHEMENG 355) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE355 | instructors:Hunt, D. (TA) description:Combines biological knowledge and methods with quantitative engineering principles. Quantitative review of biochemistry and metabolism; recombinant DNA technology and synthetic biology (metabolic engineering). The production of protein pharaceuticals as a paradigm for the application of chemical engineering principles to advanced process development within the framework of current business and regulatory requirements. Prerequisite: CHEMENG 181 (formerly 188) or BIOSCI 41, or equivalent.
BIOE361 | Biomaterials in Regenerative Medicine (MATSCI 381) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE361 | instructors:Heilshorn, S. (PI) description:Materials design and engineering for regenerative medicine. How materials interact with cells through their micro- and nanostructure, mechanical properties, degradation characteristics, surface chemistry, and biochemistry. Examples include novel materials for drug and gene delivery, materials for stem cell proliferation and differentiation, and tissue engineering scaffolds. Prerequisites: undergraduate chemistry, and cell/molecular biology or biochemistry.
BIOE371 | Global Biodesign:  Medical Technology in an International Context (MED 271) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE371 | instructors:Doshi, R. (PI); Mairal, A. (PI) description:(Same as OIT 587) This course examines the challenges and opportunities of developing and implementing innovative medical technologies to help patients around the world. Faculty and guest speakers discuss the status of the global medtech industry, as well as trends and issues affecting medical technology innovation in seven primary geographic regions: Africa, China, Europe, India, Japan, Latin America, and the United States. Students explore key differences between the covered geographies, which range from emerging markets with vast bottom-of-the-pyramid and growing middle class populations, to well-established markets with sophisticated demands and shifting demographics. Utilizes real-world case studies and class projects to promote engagement and provide a hands-on learning experience. Students work in multidisciplinary teams with real-world companies to develop a plan for bringing an existing product to a new global market.
BIOE374A | Biodesign Innovation: Needs Finding and Concept Creation (ME 368A, MED 272A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE374A | instructors:Brinton, T. (PI); Denend, L. (PI); Venook, R. (PI); Watkins, F. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Jenkins, C. (TA); Ploch, C. (TA) description:In this two-quarter course series (BIOE 374A/B, MED 272A/B, ME 368A/B, OIT 384/5), multidisciplinary student teams identify real-world unmet healthcare needs, invent new medtech products to address them, and plan for their development into patient care. During the first quarter (winter 2017), students select and characterize an important unmet healthcare problem, validate it through primary interviews and secondary research, and then brainstorm and screen initial technology-based solutions. In the second quarter (spring 2017), teams select a lead solution and move it toward the market through prototyping, technical re-risking, strategies to address healthcare-specific requirements (regulation, reimbursement), and business planning. Final presentations in winter and spring are made to a panel of prominent medtech experts and investors. Class sessions include faculty-led instruction and case demonstrations, coaching sessions by industry specialists, expert guest lecturers, and interactive team meetings. Enrollment is by application only, and students are expected to participate in both quarters of the course. Visit http://biodesign.stanford.edu/programs/stanford-courses/biodesign-innovation.html to access the application, examples of past projects, and student testimonials. More information about Stanford Biodesign, which has led to the creation of more than 40 venture-backed healthcare companies and has helped hundreds of student launch health technology careers, can be found at http://biodesign.stanford.edu/.
BIOE374B | Biodesign Innovation: Concept Development and Implementation (ME 368B, MED 272B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE374B | instructors:Brinton, T. (PI); Yock, P. (PI) description:In this two-quarter course series (BIOE 374A/B, MED 272A/B, ME 368A/B, OIT 384/5), multidisciplinary student teams identify real-world unmet healthcare needs, invent new medtech products to address them, and plan for their development into patient care. During the first quarter (winter 2017), students select and characterize an important unmet healthcare problem, validate it through primary interviews and secondary research, and then brainstorm and screen initial technology-based solutions. In the second quarter (spring 2017), teams select a lead solution and move it toward the market through prototyping, technical re-risking, strategies to address healthcare-specific requirements (regulation, reimbursement), and business planning. Final presentations in winter and spring are made to a panel of prominent medtech experts and investors. Class sessions include faculty-led instruction and case demonstrations, coaching sessions by industry specialists, expert guest lecturers, and interactive team meetings. Enrollment is by application only, and students are expected to participate in both quarters of the course. Visit http://biodesign.stanford.edu/programs/stanford-courses/biodesign-innovation.html to access the application, examples of past projects, and student testimonials. More information about Stanford Biodesign, which has led to the creation of more than 40 venture-backed healthcare companies and has helped hundreds of student launch health technology careers, can be found at http://biodesign.stanford.edu/.
BIOE375A | Biodesign Innovation: Needs Finding and Concept Creation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE375A | instructors:Venook, R. (PI); Yock, P. (PI) description:Enrollment limited to SCPD students. Two quarter sequence. Inventing new medical devices and instrumentation, including: methods of validating medical needs; techniques for analyzing intellectual property; basics of regulatory (FDA) and reimbursement planning; brainstorming and early prototyping. Guest lecturers and practical demonstrations.
BIOE375B | Biodesign Innovation: Concept Development and Implementation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE375B | instructors:Venook, R. (PI); Yock, P. (PI) description:Enrollment limited to SCPD students. Two quarter sequence. How to take a medical device invention forward from early concept to technology translation and development. Topics include prototyping; patent strategies; advanced planning for reimbursement and FDA approval; choosing translation route (licensing versus start-up); ethical issues including conflict of interest; fundraising approaches and cash requirements; essentials of writing a business or research plan; strategies for assembling a development team. Prerequisite: BIOE 375A
BIOE376 | Startup Garage: Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE376 | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Galen, D. (SI); Glickman, M. (SI); Lisbonne, B. (SI); Siegelman, R. (SI); Wood, D. (SI) description:A hands-on, project-based course, in which teams identify and work with users, domain experts, and industry participants to identify an unmet customer need, design new products or services that meet that need, and develop business models to support the creation and launch of startup products or services. This course integrates methods from human-centered design, lean startup, and business model planning. Each team will conceive, design, build, and field-test critical aspects of both the product or service and the business model.
BIOE377 | Startup Garage: Testing and Launch | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE377 | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Galen, D. (SI); Glickman, M. (SI); Lisbonne, B. (SI); Siegelman, R. (SI); Wood, D. (SI) description:STRAMGT 356/BIOE 376 teams that concluded at the end of fall quarter that their preliminary product or service and business model suggest a path to viability, may continue with STRAMGT 366/BIOE 377 in winter quarter. Teams develop more elaborate versions of their product/service and business model, perform a series of experiments to test key hypotheses about their product and business model, and prepare and present an investor pitch for a seed round of financing to a panel of seasoned investors and entrepreneurs.
BIOE381 | Orthopaedic Bioengineering (ME 381) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE381 | instructors:Levenston, M. (PI) description:Engineering approaches applied to the musculoskeletal system in the context of surgical and medical care. Fundamental anatomy and physiology. Material and structural characteristics of hard and soft connective tissues and organ systems, and the role of mechanics in normal development and pathogenesis. Engineering methods used in the evaluation and planning of orthopaedic procedures, surgery, and devices.
BIOE390 | Introduction to Bioengineering Research (MED 289) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE390 | instructors:Narayan, S. (PI); Wang, P. (PI); Yang, Y. (PI) description:Preference to medical and bioengineering graduate students with first preference given to Bioengineering Scholarly Concentration medical students. Bioengineering is an interdisciplinary field that leverages the disciplines of biology, medicine, and engineering to understand living systems, and engineer biological systems and improve engineering designs and human and environmental health. Students and faculty make presentations during the course. Students expected to make presentations, complete a short paper, read selected articles, and take quizzes on the material.
BIOE391 | Directed Study | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE391 | instructors:Altman, R. (PI); Bammer, R. (PI); Barron, A. (PI); Batzoglou, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Bryant, Z. (PI); Butte, A. (PI); Camarillo, D. (PI); Carter, D. (PI); Cochran, J. (PI); Covert, M. (PI); Deisseroth, K. (PI); Delp, S. (PI); Endy, A. (PI); Fahrig, R. (PI); Feinstein, J. (PI); Gambhir, S. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Goodman, S. (PI); Graves, E. (PI); Hargreaves, B. (PI); Heilshorn, S. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Krummel, T. (PI); Kuhl, E. (PI); Lee, J. (PI); Levenston, M. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Lin, M. (PI); Liphardt, J. (PI); Longaker, M. (PI); Moore, T. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Plevritis, S. (PI); Prakash, M. (PI); Qi, S. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Riedel-Kruse, I. (PI); Sapolsky, R. (PI); Schnitzer, M. (PI); Scott, M. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smolke, C. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Swartz, J. (PI); Taylor, C. (PI); Woo, J. (PI); Wu, J. (PI); Yang, F. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:May be used to prepare for research during a later quarter in 392. Faculty sponsor required. May be repeated for credit.
BIOE392 | Directed Investigation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE392 | instructors:Alizadeh, A. (PI); Altman, R. (PI); Andriacchi, T. (PI); Appel, E. (PI); Bammer, R. (PI); Bao, Z. (PI); Barron, A. (PI); Batzoglou, S. (PI); Bertozzi, C. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Bryant, Z. (PI); Butte, A. (PI); Camarillo, D. (PI); Carter, D. (PI); Cheng, C. (PI); Chichilnisky, E. (PI); Cochran, J. (PI); Covert, M. (PI); Dabiri, J. (PI); Dahl, J. (PI); Deisseroth, K. (PI); Delp, S. (PI); Endy, A. (PI); Engleman, E. (PI); Etkin, A. (PI); Fahrig, R. (PI); Feinstein, J. (PI); Feng, L. (PI); Fire, A. (PI); Fordyce, P. (PI); Gambhir, S. (PI); Garcia, C. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Goodman, S. (PI); Graves, E. (PI); Greenleaf, W. (PI); Hargreaves, B. (PI); Heilshorn, S. (PI); Herschlag, D. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Jonikas, M. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kim, P. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Krummel, T. (PI); Kuhl, E. (PI); Lee, J. (PI); Levenston, M. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Lin, M. (PI); Liphardt, J. (PI); Longaker, M. (PI); Marsden, A. (PI); Moore, T. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Nolan, G. (PI); O'Brien, L. (PI); Okamura, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Plevritis, S. (PI); Prakash, M. (PI); Pruitt, B. (PI); Qi, S. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Rando, T. (PI); Raymond, J. (PI); Reijo Pera, R. (PI); Relman, D. (PI); Riedel-Kruse, I. (PI); Sapolsky, R. (PI); Schnitzer, M. (PI); Scott, M. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smolke, C. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Swartz, J. (PI); Taylor, C. (PI); Wang, B. (PI); Woo, J. (PI); Wu, J. (PI); Wu, S. (PI); Yang, F. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:For Bioengineering graduate students. Previous work in 391 may be required for background; faculty sponsor required.  May be repeated for credit.
BIOE393 | Bioengineering Departmental Research Colloquium | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE393 | instructors:Marsden, A. (PI); Quake, S. (PI) description:Bioengineering department labs at Stanford present recent research projects and results. Guest lecturers. Topics include applications of engineering to biology, medicine, biotechnology, and medical technology, including biodesign and devices, molecular and cellular engineering, regenerative medicine and tissue engineering, biomedical imaging, and biomedical computation.  Aut, Win, Spr (Lin, Riedel-Kruse, Barron)
BIOE41 | Physical Biology of Macromolecules | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE41 | instructors:Prakash, M. (PI) description:Principles of statistical physics, thermodynamics, and kinetics with applications to molecular biology. Topics include entropy, temperature, chemical forces, enzyme kinetics, free energy and its uses, self assembly, cooperative transitions in macromolecules, molecular machines, feedback, and accurate replication. Prerequisites: MATH 41, 42; CHEM 31A, B (or 31X); strongly recommended: PHYSICS 41, CME 100 or MATH 51, and CME 106; or instructor approval.
BIOE42 | Physical Biology of Cells | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE42 | instructors:Aranda-Diaz, A. (TA) description:Principles of transport, continuum mechanics, and fluids, with applications to cell biology. Topics include random walks, diffusion, Langevin dynamics, transport theory, low Reynolds number flow, and beam theory, with applications including quantitative models of protein trafficking in the cell, mechanics of the cell cytoskeleton, the effects of molecular noise in development, the electromagnetics of nerve impulses, and an introduction to cardiovascular fluid flow. Prerequisites:  MATH 41, 42; CHEM 31A, B (or 31X); strongly recommended: CS 106A, PHYSICS 41, CME 100 or MATH 51, and CME 106; or instructor approval.  4 units, Spr (Huang, K)
BIOE44 | Fundamentals for Engineering Biology Lab | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE44 | instructors:Qi, S. (PI); Rogers, K. (PI); Smolke, C. (PI); Kim, C. (TA); Schmidt, C. (TA) description:Introduction to next-generation techniques in genetic, molecular, biochemical, and cellular engineering. Lab modules build upon current research including: gene and genome engineering via decoupled design and construction of genetic material; component engineering focusing on molecular design and quantitative analysis of experiments; device and system engineering using abstracted genetically encoded objects; and product development based on useful applications of biological technologies. Concurrent or previous enrollment in BIO 41.
BIOE454 | Synthetic Biology and Metabolic Engineering (CHEMENG 454) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE454 | instructors:Swartz, J. (PI) description:Principles for the design and optimization of new biological systems. Development of new enzymes, metabolic pathways, other metabolic systems, and communication systems among organisms. Example applications include the production of central metabolites, amino acids, pharmaceutical proteins, and isoprenoids. Economic challenges and quantitative assessment of metabolic performance. Pre- or corequisite: CHEMENG 355 or equivalent.
BIOE459 | Frontiers in Interdisciplinary Biosciences (BIO 459, BIOC 459, CHEM 459, CHEMENG 459, PSYCH 459) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE459 | instructors:Robertson, C. (PI) description:Students register through their affiliated department; otherwise register for CHEMENG 459. For specialists and non-specialists. Sponsored by the Stanford BioX Program. Three seminars per quarter address scientific and technical themes related to interdisciplinary approaches in bioengineering, medicine, and the chemical, physical, and biological sciences. Leading investigators from Stanford and the world present breakthroughs and endeavors that cut across core disciplines. Pre-seminars introduce basic concepts and background for non-experts. Registered students attend all pre-seminars; others welcome. See http://biox.stanford.edu/courses/459.html. Recommended: basic mathematics, biology, chemistry, and physics.
BIOE485 | Modeling and Simulation of Human Movement (ME 485) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE485 | instructors:Delp, S. (PI) description:Direct experience with the computational tools used to create simulations of human movement. Lecture/labs on animation of movement; kinematic models of joints; forward dynamic simulation; computational models of muscles, tendons, and ligaments; creation of models from medical images; control of dynamic simulations; collision detection and contact models. Prerequisite: 281, 331A,B, or equivalent.
BIOE500 | Thesis (Ph.D.) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE500 | instructors:Altman, R. (PI); Bammer, R. (PI); Barron, A. (PI); Batzoglou, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Bryant, Z. (PI); Butte, A. (PI); Camarillo, D. (PI); Carter, D. (PI); Cochran, J. (PI); Covert, M. (PI); Deisseroth, K. (PI); Delp, S. (PI); Endy, A. (PI); Fahrig, R. (PI); Feinstein, J. (PI); Gambhir, S. (PI); Garcia, C. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Goodman, S. (PI); Graves, E. (PI); Hargreaves, B. (PI); Heilshorn, S. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Krummel, T. (PI); Kuhl, E. (PI); Lee, J. (PI); Levenston, M. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Lin, M. (PI); Liphardt, J. (PI); Longaker, M. (PI); Moore, T. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Plevritis, S. (PI); Prakash, M. (PI); Pruitt, B. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Relman, D. (PI); Riedel-Kruse, I. (PI); Rose, J. (PI); Sanger, T. (PI); Sapolsky, R. (PI); Schnitzer, M. (PI); Scott, M. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smolke, C. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Swartz, J. (PI); Taylor, C. (PI); Wu, J. (PI); Xing, L. (PI); Yang, F. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:(Staff)
BIOE51 | Anatomy for Bioengineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE51 | instructors:Hyde, E. (TA) description:Fundamental human anatomy, spanning major body systems and tissues including nerve, muscle, bone, cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and renal systems. Explore intricacies of structure and function, and how various body parts come together to form a coherent and adaptable living being. Correlate clinical conditions and therapeutic interventions. Participate in lab sessions with predissected cadaveric material and hands-on learning to gain understanding of the bioengineering human application domain.  Encourage anatomical thinking, defining challenges and opportunities for bioengineers.
BIOE70Q | Medical Device Innovation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE70Q | instructors:Mandato, J. (PI); Pierce, R. (PI) description:BIOE 70Q invites students to apply design thinking to the creation of healthcare technologies. Students will learn about the variety of factors that shape healthcare innovation, and through hands-on design projects, invent their own solutions to clinical needs. Guest instructors will include engineers, doctors, entrepreneurs, and others who have helped bring ideas from concept to clinical use.
BIOE80 | Introduction to Bioengineering (Engineering Living Matter) (ENGR 80) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE80 | instructors:Liphardt, J. (PI); Voges, M. (TA) description:Students completing BIOE.80 should have a working understanding for how to approach the systematic engineering of living systems to benefit all people and the planet.  Our main goals are (1) to help students learn ways of thinking about engineering living matter and (2) to empower students to explore the broader ramifications of engineering life. Specific concepts and skills covered include but are not limited to: capacities of natural life on Earth; scope of the existing human-directed bioeconomy; deconstructing complicated problems; reaction & diffusion systems; microbial human anatomy; conceptualizing the engineering of biology; how atoms can be organized to make molecules; how to print DNA from scratch; programming genetic sensors, logic, & actuators; biology beyond molecules (photons, electrons, etc.); what constraints limit what life can do?; what will be the major health challenges in 2030?; how does what we want shape bioengineering?; who should choose and realize various competing bioengineering futures?
BIOE802 | TGR Dissertation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=BIOE802 | instructors:Altman, R. (PI); Andriacchi, T. (PI); Baker, J. (PI); Bammer, R. (PI); Barron, A. (PI); Batzoglou, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Bryant, Z. (PI); Butte, A. (PI); Camarillo, D. (PI); Carter, D. (PI); Chang, H. (PI); Cochran, J. (PI); Contag, C. (PI); Covert, M. (PI); Dahl, J. (PI); Deisseroth, K. (PI); Delp, S. (PI); Endy, A. (PI); Etkin, A. (PI); Fahrig, R. (PI); Feinstein, J. (PI); Gambhir, S. (PI); Ganguli, S. (PI); Garcia, C. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Goodman, S. (PI); Graves, E. (PI); Hargreaves, B. (PI); Heilshorn, S. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Krummel, T. (PI); Kuhl, E. (PI); Lee, J. (PI); Levenston, M. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Lin, M. (PI); Liphardt, J. (PI); Longaker, M. (PI); Moore, T. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Plevritis, S. (PI); Prakash, M. (PI); Pruitt, B. (PI); Qi, S. (PI); Quake, S. (PI); Reijo Pera, R. (PI); Relman, D. (PI); Riedel-Kruse, I. (PI); Rose, J. (PI); Sanger, T. (PI); Sapolsky, R. (PI); Schnitzer, M. (PI); Scott, M. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smolke, C. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Swartz, J. (PI); Taylor, C. (PI); Wernig, M. (PI); Wu, J. (PI); Xing, L. (PI); Yang, F. (PI); Yock, P. (PI); Zarins, C. (PI); Zenios, S. (PI) description:(Staff)
