20.010J | Introduction to Bioengineering (BE.010J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-010j-introduction-to-bioengineering-be-010j-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Biological Engineering Faculty term:Spring 2006 features:Selected video lectures, Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes description:Bioengineering at MIT is represented by the diverse curricula offered by most Departments in the School of Engineering. This course samples the wide variety of bioengineering options for students who plan to major in one of the undergraduate Engineering degree programs. The beginning lectures describe the science basis for bioengineering with particular emphasis on molecular cell biology and systems biology. Bioengineering faculty will then describe the bioengineering options in a particular engineering course as well as the type of research conducted by faculty in the department.
20.011J | Statistical Thermodynamics of Biomolecular Systems (BE.011J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-011j-statistical-thermodynamics-of-biomolecular-systems-be-011j-spring-2004 | textbook:All Text Readings are in  Dill, K., and S. Bromberg. Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:van Holde =  van Holde, K. E., W. C. Johnson, and P. S. Ho. Principles of Physical Biochemistry. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1998. textbook:Eisenberg =  Eisenberg, D., and D. Crothers. Physical Chemistry with Applications to the Life Sciences. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings, 1979. textbook:Kittel =  Kittel, C., and H. Kroemer. Thermal Physics. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1980. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kim Hamad-Schifferli,  Linda Griffith term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to the physical chemistry of biological systems. Topics include: connection of macroscopic thermodynamic properties to microscopic molecular properties using statistical mechanics, chemical potentials, equilibrium states, binding cooperativity, behavior of macromolecules in solution and at interfaces, and solvation. Example problems include protein structure, genomic analysis, single molecule biomechanics, and biomaterials.
20.020 | Introduction to Biological Engineering Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-020-introduction-to-biological-engineering-design-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Natalie Kuldell,  Andrew Endy term:Spring 2009 features:Subtitles/transcript, Tutorial - video, Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This class is a project-based introduction to the engineering of synthetic biological systems. Throughout the term, students develop projects that are responsive to real-world problems of their choosing, and whose solutions depend on biological technologies. Lectures, discussions, and studio exercises will introduce (1) components and control of prokaryotic and eukaryotic behavior, (2) DNA synthesis, standards, and abstraction in biological engineering, and (3) issues of human practice, including biological safety; security; ownership, sharing, and innovation; and ethics. Enrollment preference is given to freshmen.This subject was originally developed and first taught in Spring 2008 by Drew Endy and Natalie Kuldell. Many of Drew's materials are used in this Spring 2009 version, and are included with his permission.This OCW Web site is based on the OpenWetWare class Wiki, found at OpenWetWare: 20.020 (S09)
20.102 | Macroepidemiology (BE.102) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-102-macroepidemiology-be-102-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:William Thilly term:Spring 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course presents a challenging multi-dimensional perspective on the causes of human disease and mortality. The course focuses on analyses of major causes of mortality in the US since 1900: cancer, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, diabetes, and infectious diseases. Students create analytical models to derive estimates for historically variant population risk factors and physiological rate parameters, and conduct analyses of familial data to separately estimate inherited and environmental risks. The course evaluates the basic population genetics of dominant, recessive and non-deleterious inherited risk factors.
20.104J | Chemicals in the Environment: Toxicology and Public Health (BE.104J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-104j-chemicals-in-the-environment-toxicology-and-public-health-be-104j-spring-2005 | textbook:Gordis, L. Epidemiology. 3rd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2004. textbook:Schork, M. A., and R. D. Remington. Statistics with Applications to the Biological and Health Sciences. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000. level:Undergraduate instructors:James Sherley, Dr. Laura Green,  Steven Tannenbaum term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course addresses the challenges of defining a relationship between exposure to environmental chemicals and human disease. Course topics include epidemiological approaches to understanding disease causation; biostatistical methods; evaluation of human exposure to chemicals, and their internal distribution, metabolism, reactions with cellular components, and biological effects; and qualitative and quantitative health risk assessment methods used in the U.S. as bases for regulatory decision-making. Throughout the term, students consider case studies of local and national interest.
20.106J | Systems Microbiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-106j-systems-microbiology-fall-2006 | textbook:Many of the readings come from the course textbook, "Brock":  Madigan, Michael, and John Martinko. Brock Biology of Microorganisms. 11th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall, 2005. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Schauer,  Edward DeLong term:Fall 2006 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers introductory microbiology from a systems perspective, considering microbial diversity, population dynamics, and genomics. Emphasis is placed on the delicate balance between microbes and humans, and the changes that result in the emergence of infectious diseases and antimicrobial resistance. The case study approach covers such topics as vaccines, toxins, biodefense, and infections including Legionnaire&rsquo;s disease, tuberculosis, Helicobacter pylori, and plague.
20.109 | Laboratory Fundamentals in Biological Engineering (Spring 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-109-laboratory-fundamentals-in-biological-engineering-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Agi Stachowiak,  Alan Jasanoff,  Jacquin Niles, Dr. Atissa Banuazizi<br/>(Oral Presentation Instructor), Dr. Neal Lerner<br/>(Writing Instructor), Dr. Linda Sutliff<br/>(Writing Instructor) term:Spring 2010 features:Special feature - video, Assignments and solutions description:This course introduces experimental biochemical and molecular techniques from a quantitative engineering perspective. Experimental design, data analysis, and scientific communication form the underpinnings of this subject. Three discovery-based experimental modules focus on RNA engineering, protein engineering, and cell-biomaterial engineering.This OCW site is based on the source OpenWetWare class Wiki, 20.109(S10): Laboratory Fundamentals of Biological Engineering.
20.109 | Laboratory Fundamentals in Biological Engineering (Fall 2007) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-109-laboratory-fundamentals-in-biological-engineering-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Drew Endy, Dr. Natalie Kuldell, Dr. Neal Lerner<br/>(Writing Instructor), Dr. Agi Stachowiak,  Angela M. Belcher, Dr. Atissa Banuazizi<br/>(Oral Presentation Instructor) term:Fall 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces experimental biochemical and molecular techniques from a quantitative engineering perspective. Experimental design, rigorous data analysis, and scientific communication form the underpinnings of this subject. Three discovery-based experimental modules focus on genome engineering, expression engineering, and biomaterial engineering.This OCW site is based on the source OpenWetWare class Wiki, found at 20.109(F07): Laboratory Fundamentals of Biological Engineering.
20.110J | Thermodynamics of Biomolecular Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-110j-thermodynamics-of-biomolecular-systems-fall-2005 | textbook:[SAB]  Silbey, R., R. Alberty, and M. Bawendi. Physical Chemistry. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 2004. textbook:[DB]  Dill, Ken A., and Sarina Bromberg. Molecular Driving Forces: Statistical Thermodynamics in Chemistry and Biology. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Kim Hamad-Schifferli,  Linda Griffith,  Moungi Bawendi,  Robert Field term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This subject deals primarily with equilibrium properties of macroscopic and microscopic systems, basic thermodynamics, chemical equilibrium of reactions in gas and solution phase, and macromolecular interactions.
20.180 | Biological Engineering Programming | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-180-biological-engineering-programming-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Andrew Endy term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Exams and solutions description:In this course problems from biological engineering are used to develop structured computer programming skills and explore the theory and practice of complex systems design and construction. The official course Web site can be viewed at: BE.180 Biological Engineering Programming.
20.181 | Computation for Biological Engineers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-181-computation-for-biological-engineers-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Eric Alm,  Andrew Endy term:Fall 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the analytical, graphical, and numerical methods supporting the analysis and design of integrated biological systems. Topics include modularity and abstraction in biological systems, mathematical encoding of detailed physical problems, numerical methods for solving the dynamics of continuous and discrete chemical systems, statistics and probability in dynamic systems, applied local and global optimization, simple feedback and control analysis, statistics and probability in pattern recognition.An official course Web site and Wiki is maintained on OpenWetWare: 20.181 Computation for Biological Engineers.
20.219 | Becoming the Next Bill Nye: Writing and Hosting the Educational Show | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-219-becoming-the-next-bill-nye-writing-and-hosting-the-educational-show-january-iap-2015 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elizabeth Choe,  Jaime Goldstein,  Chris Boebel<br/>(Guest Lecturer),  George Zaidan<br/>(Guest Lecturer),  Joshua Gunn<br/>(Guest Lecturer),  Ceri Riley<br/>(Teaching Assistant), Dr. Natalie Kuldell<br/>(Guest Lecturer) term:January IAP 2015 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Projects and examples, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:Becoming the Next Bill Nye is about using video production techniques to develop your ability to engagingly convey your passions for science, technology, engineering, and / or math. You'll have the opportunity to script and on-screen host 5-minute YouTube science, technology, engineering, and / or math-related shows to inspire youth to consider a future in science.
20.309 | Biological Engineering II: Instrumentation and Measurement (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-309-biological-engineering-ii-instrumentation-and-measurement-fall-2006 | textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005, chapters 2, 3, 9, and 10. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "Sinusoidal Steady State." Chapter 13 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "The Operational Amplifier Abstraction." Chapter 15 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Strang, G. "Analytical Methods." Chapter 4 in Introduction to Applied Mathematics. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 1986. textbook:W. H., et al. "Introduction," and "Fourier Transform of Discretely Sampled Data;" Chapter 12.0-12.1 and "Power Spectrum Estimation Using the FFT." Chapter 13.4 in Press, Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. "Histograms, Contrast, Spatial Filtering" Chapter 4, "Morphological Operations" Chapter 8, "Segmentation" Chapter 7, and "Recognition & Interpretation" Chapter 9 in Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Maxim Shusteff,  Peter So,  Scott Manalis term:Fall 2006 features:Tutorial - video, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers sensing and measurement for quantitative molecular/cell/tissue analysis, in terms of genetic, biochemical, and biophysical properties. Methods include light and fluorescence microscopies; electro-mechanical probes such as atomic force microscopy, laser and magnetic traps, and MEMS devices; and the application of statistics, probability and noise analysis to experimental data. Enrollment preference is given to juniors and seniors.
20.310J | Molecular, Cellular, and Tissue Biomechanics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-310j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-spring-2015 | textbook:[Phillips] =  Phillips, R., J. Kondev, and J. Theriot. Physical Biology of the Cell. Garland Science, 2008. textbook:[Howard] =  Howard, J. Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:[Jackson] =  Jackson, M. B. Molecular and Cellular Biophysics. Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:[Grodzinsky] =  Grodzinsky, A. Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems. Garland Science, 2011. textbook:[Lodish] =  Lodish, H., D. Baltimore, et al. Molecular Cell Biology. W. H. Freeman and Company, 2012. level:Undergraduate instructors:Roger Kamm,  Alan Grodzinsky term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum and statistical mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales, from molecular to cellular to tissue or organ level.
20.320 | Analysis of Biomolecular and Cellular Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-320-analysis-of-biomolecular-and-cellular-systems-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Ernest Fraenkel,  Forest White term:Fall 2012 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course focuses on computational and experimental analysis of biological systems across a hierarchy of  scales, including genetic, molecular, cellular, and cell population  levels. The two central themes of the course are modeling of complex dynamic systems and protein design and engineering. Topics include gene sequence analysis, molecular modeling,  metabolic and gene regulation networks, signal transduction pathways and  cell populations in tissues. Emphasis is placed on experimental methods,  quantitative analysis, and computational modeling.
20.330J | Fields, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-330j-fields-forces-and-flows-in-biological-systems-spring-2007 | textbook:TY & K:  Truskey, G. A., F. Yuan, and D. F. Katz. Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2003. textbook:H & M: Haus, H. A., and J. R. Melcher. Electromagnetic Fields and Energy. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1989. textbook:Probstein:  Probstein, R. F. Physiochemical Hydrodynamics: An Introduction. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 2003. textbook:Jones:  Jones, T. B. Electromechanics of Particles. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2005. textbook:Deen, W. "Stream Function." Section 5.9 in Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Deen, W. "Appendix A, Tables A-1 through A-4 (Vector Identity summary)." In Analysis of Transport Phenomena. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. textbook:Berg, H. C. "One-dimensional Random Walks." In Random Walks in Biology. 2nd ed. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jongyoon Han,  Scott Manalis term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces the basic driving forces for electric current, fluid flow, and mass transport, plus their application to a variety of biological systems. Basic mathematical and engineering tools will be introduced, in the context of biology and physiology. Various electrokinetic phenomena are also considered as an example of coupled nature of chemical-electro-mechanical driving forces. Applications include transport in biological tissues and across membranes, manipulation of cells and biomolecules, and microfluidics.
20.340J | Materials for Biomedical Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-051j-materials-for-biomedical-applications-spring-2006 | textbook:Ratner, Buddy D., et al. Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials in Medicine. 2nd ed. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 2004. level:Undergraduate instructors:Anne Mayes term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes, Exams and solutions description:This class provides an introduction to the interactions between cells and the surfaces of biomaterials. The course covers: surface chemistry and physics of selected metals, polymers, and ceramics; surface characterization methodology; modification of biomaterials surfaces; quantitative assays of cell behavior in culture; biosensors and microarrays; bulk properties of implants; and acute and chronic response to implanted biomaterials. General topics include biosensors, drug delivery, and tissue engineering.
20.342 | Molecular Structure of Biological Materials (BE.442) (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-442-molecular-structure-of-biological-materials-be-442-fall-2005 | textbook:Branden, Carl, and John Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Routledge, 1999. textbook:Stryer, L. Biochemistry. 4th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Zubay, G. L. Biochemistry. 3rd ed. Dubuque, IA: William C. Brown Publishers, 1993. textbook:Matthews, C. K., and K. E. Van Holde. Biochemistry. 2nd ed. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings Pub. Co., Inc., 1995. textbook:Creighton, T. E. Proteins: Structures and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1993. textbook:Dickerson, R. The Structure and Action of Proteins. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1969. textbook:McGrath, K., and D. Kaplan, eds. Protein-based Materials. Boston, MA: Birkhüaser, 1997. textbook:Ball P. Life's Matrix: A Biography of Water. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2001. textbook:Aggeli, A., et al. Self-assembling Peptide Systems in Biology, Engineering and Medicine. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Shuguang Zhang term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course, intended for both graduate and upper level undergraduate students, will focus on understanding of the basic molecular structural principles of biological materials. It will address the molecular structures of various materials of biological origin, such as several types of collagen, silk, spider silk, wool, hair, bones, shells, protein adhesives, GFP, and self-assembling peptides. It will also address molecular design of new biological materials applying the molecular structural principles. The long-term goal of this course is to teach molecular design of new biological materials for a broad range of applications. A brief history of biological materials and its future perspective as well as its impact to the society will also be discussed. Several experts will be invited to give guest lectures.
20.370J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
20.371J | Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-542j-quantitative-physiology-organ-transport-systems-spring-2004 | textbook:Listed below are also relevant sections from the course textbook:  Costanzo, Linda S. Physiology. 2nd ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders, 2002. level:Undergraduate instructors:Jose Venegas,  Roger Mark term:Spring 2004 features:Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course elaborates on the application of the principles of energy and mass flow to major human organ systems. It discusses mechanisms of regulation and homeostasis. It also discusses anatomical, physiological, and pathophysiological features of the cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal systems. There is emphasis on those systems, features, and devices that are most illuminated by the methods of physical sciences.
20.380J | Biological Engineering Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-380j-biological-engineering-design-spring-2010 | level:Undergraduate instructors:John Essigmann,  Darrell Irvine,  Forest White, Dr. Atissa Banuazizi<br/>(Writing Instructor), Mr. Harlan Breindel<br/>(Writing Instructor), Dr. Mya Poe<br/>(Writing Instructor) term:Spring 2010 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course illustrates how knowledge and principles of biology, biochemistry, and engineering are integrated to create new products for societal benefit. It uses a case study format to examine recently developed products of pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries: how a product evolves from initial idea, through patents, testing, evaluation, production, and marketing. Emphasizes scientific and engineering principles; the responsibility scientists, engineers, and business executives have for the consequences of their technology; and instruction and practice in written and oral communication. The topic focus of this class will vary from year to year. This version looks at inflammation underlying many diseases, specifically its role in cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.
20.390J | Foundations of Computational and Systems Biology (Spring 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-91j-foundations-of-computational-and-systems-biology-spring-2014 | textbook:This textbook is recommended for the course: Zvelebil, Marketa J., and Jeremy O. Baum. Understanding Bioinformatics. Garland Science, 2007. textbook:Broman, Karl W., and Saunak Sen. "Single–QTL Analysis." Chapter 4 in A Guide to QTL Mapping with R/qtl. Springer, 2009. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Gifford,  Ernest Fraenkel term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to computational biology emphasizing the fundamentals of nucleic acid and protein sequence and structural analysis; it also includes an introduction to the analysis of complex biological systems. Topics covered in the course include principles and methods used for sequence alignment, motif finding, structural modeling, structure prediction and network modeling, as well as currently emerging research areas.
20.470J | Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-021j-quantitative-physiology-cells-and-tissues-fall-2004 | textbook:Weiss, Thomas F. Cellular Biophysics: Transport. Vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:———. Cellular Biophysics: Electrical Properties. Vol. 2. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. level:Undergraduate instructors:Dennis Freeman term:Fall 2004 features:Projects (no examples) description:In this subject, we consider two basic topics in cellular biophysics, posed here as questions:  Which molecules are transported across cellular membranes, and what are the mechanisms of transport? How do cells maintain their compositions, volume, and membrane potential? How are potentials generated across the membranes of cells? What do these potentials do?  Although the questions posed are fundamentally biological questions, the methods for answering these questions are inherently multidisciplinary. As we will see throughout the course, the role of mathematical models is to express concepts precisely enough that precise conclusions can be drawn. In connection with all the topics covered, we will consider both theory and experiment. For the student, the educational value of examining the interplay between theory and experiment transcends the value of the specific knowledge gained in the subject matter. This course is jointly offered through four departments, available to both undergraduates and graduates.
20.201 | Mechanisms of Drug Actions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-201-mechanisms-of-drug-actions-fall-2013 | textbook:[Golan] =  Golan, David E., Armen H. Tashjian, and Ehrin J. Armstrong, eds. Principles of Pharmacology: The Pathophysiologic Basis of Drug Therapy. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2011. textbook:[C&D] =  Klaassen, Curtis. Casarett & Doull's Toxicology: The Basic Science of Poisons. 8th ed. McGraw-Hill Professional, 2013. level:Graduate instructors:Peter Dedon,  Steven Tannenbaum, Dr. Mark Murcko, Dr. Charles Knutson term:Fall 2013 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course addresses the scientific basis for the development of new drugs. The first half of the semester begins with an overview of the drug discovery process, followed by fundamental principles of pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, metabolism, and the mechanisms by which drugs cause therapeutic and toxic responses. The second half of the semester applies those principles to case studies and literature discussions of current problems with specific drugs, drug classes, and therapeutic targets.
20.203 | Neurotechnology in Action | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-123-neurotechnology-in-action-fall-2014 | textbook:Raichle, Marcus E. "Functional Neuroimaging: A Historical and Physiological Perspective." In Handbook of Functional Neuroimaging of Cognition. MIT press, 2001, pp. 3–26. textbook:Huettel, Scott A., Allen W. Song, and Gregory McCarthy. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Vol. 1. Sinauer Associates, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff,  Edward Boyden,  Maxine Jonas term:Fall 2014 features:Selected lecture notes, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course, as a part of MIT's Center for Neurobiological Engineering curriculum,  explores cutting-edge neurotechnology that is essential for advances in all aspects of neuroscience, including improvements in existing methods as well as the development, testing and discussion of completely new paradigms.  Readings and in-class sessions cover the fields of electrophysiology, light microscopy, cellular engineering, optogenetics, electron microscopy, MRI / fMRI, and MEG / EEG.  The course is designed with lectures that cover the background, context, and theoretical descriptions of neurotechnologies, and labs, which provide firsthand demonstrations as well as in situ lab tours.
20.400J | Perspectives in Biological Engineering | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-400j-perspectives-in-biological-engineering-spring-2006 | textbook:Lodish, Harvey, Matthew P. Scott, Paul Matsudaira, James Darnell, Lawrence Zipursky, Chris A. Kaiser, Arnold Berk, and Monty Krieger. Molecular Cell Biology. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Douglas Lauffenburger,  Peter Dedon term:Spring 2006 features: description:This seminar-format course provides an in-depth presentation and discussion of how engineering and biological approaches can be combined to solve problems in science and technology, emphasizing integration of biological information and methodologies with engineering analysis, synthesis, and design. Emphasis is placed on molecular mechanisms underlying cellular processes, including signal transduction, gene expression networks, and functional responses.
20.409J | Biological Engineering II: Instrumentation and Measurement (Fall 2006) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-309-biological-engineering-ii-instrumentation-and-measurement-fall-2006 | textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005, chapters 2, 3, 9, and 10. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "Sinusoidal Steady State." Chapter 13 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Agarwal, A., and J. H. Lang. "The Operational Amplifier Abstraction." Chapter 15 in Foundations of Analog and Digital Electronic Circuits. San Diego, CA: Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. textbook:Strang, G. "Analytical Methods." Chapter 4 in Introduction to Applied Mathematics. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press, 1986. textbook:W. H., et al. "Introduction," and "Fourier Transform of Discretely Sampled Data;" Chapter 12.0-12.1 and "Power Spectrum Estimation Using the FFT." Chapter 13.4 in Press, Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing. 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1992. textbook:Gonzalez, R., and R. E. Woods. "Histograms, Contrast, Spatial Filtering" Chapter 4, "Morphological Operations" Chapter 8, "Segmentation" Chapter 7, and "Recognition & Interpretation" Chapter 9 in Digital Image Processing. 2nd ed. East Rutherford, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Maxim Shusteff,  Peter So,  Scott Manalis term:Fall 2006 features:Tutorial - video, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers sensing and measurement for quantitative molecular/cell/tissue analysis, in terms of genetic, biochemical, and biophysical properties. Methods include light and fluorescence microscopies; electro-mechanical probes such as atomic force microscopy, laser and magnetic traps, and MEMS devices; and the application of statistics, probability and noise analysis to experimental data. Enrollment preference is given to juniors and seniors.
20.410J | Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Biomechanics (BE.410J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-410j-molecular-cellular-and-tissue-biomechanics-be-410j-spring-2003 | textbook:Daune, Michel. Chapter 2 in Molecular Biophysics. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1999. textbook:Dill, K. A., and S. Bromberg. Chapters 6, 8 and 10 in Molecular Driving Forces. New York, NY: Routledge, 2002. textbook:Boal, David H. Chapter 2 in Mechanics of the Cell. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2002. textbook:Howard, Johnathon. Chapters 5 and 10 in Mechanics of Motor Proteins and the Cytoskeleton. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2001. textbook:Ward, J. P. Solid Mechanics. New York, NY: Springer, 1992. textbook:Lodish, H., et. al. Molecular Cell Biology. 3rd. ed. New York, NY: Scientific American Books/W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Malvern, Lawrence E. Chapter 6 in Introduction to the Mechanics of a Continuous Medium. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1969, pp. 278-282. textbook:Fung, Y. C. Biomechanics: Mechanical Properties of Living Tissues. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 1993. textbook:Ferry, J. D. "The Nature of Viscoelastic Behavior." Chapter 1 in Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers. New York, NY: Wiley, 1980. level:Graduate instructors:Roger D. Kamm,  Patrick Doyle,  Maxine Jonas<br/>(Teaching Assistant) term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course develops and applies scaling laws and the methods of continuum mechanics to biomechanical phenomena over a range of length scales. Topics include: structure of tissues and the molecular basis for macroscopic properties; chemical and electrical effects on mechanical behavior; cell mechanics, motility and adhesion; biomembranes; biomolecular mechanics and molecular motors. Experimental methods for probing structures at the tissue, cellular, and molecular levels will also be investigated.This course was originally co-developed by Professors Alan Grodzinsky, Roger Kamm, and L. Mahadevan.
20.411J | Cell-Matrix Mechanics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-785j-cell-matrix-mechanics-fall-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Myron Spector,  Ioannis Yannas term:Fall 2014 features:Assignments and solutions description:Mechanical forces play a decisive role during development of tissues and organs, during remodeling following injury as well as in normal function. A stress field influences cell function primarily through deformation of the extracellular matrix to which cells are attached. Deformed cells express different biosynthetic activity relative to undeformed cells. The unit cell process paradigm combined with topics in connective tissue mechanics form the basis for discussions of several topics from cell biology, physiology, and medicine.
20.416J | Topics in Biophysics and Physical Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-416j-topics-in-biophysics-and-physical-biology-fall-2014 | level:Graduate instructors:Mark Bathe,  Jeff Gore term:Fall 2014 features:Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course provides broad exposure to research in biophysics and physical biology, with emphasis on the critical evaluation of scientific literature. Weekly meetings include in-depth discussion of scientific literature led by various MIT faculty on active research topics. Each session also includes a brief discussion of non-research topics including effective presentation skills, writing papers and fellowship proposals, choosing scientific and technical research topics, time management, and scientific ethics.
20.420J | Biomolecular Kinetics and Cellular Dynamics (BE.420J) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-420j-biomolecular-kinetics-and-cellular-dynamics-be-420j-fall-2004 | textbook:Lauffenburger, Douglas A., and J. Jennifer Linderman. Receptors: Models for Binding, Trafficking, and Signaling. New York: Oxford University Press, 1995. textbook:Hammes, Gordon G. Thermodynamics and Kinetics for the Biological Sciences. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley and Sons, 2000. textbook:Creighton, Thomas E. Proteins: Structures and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman and Company, 1993. textbook:Bailey, James, and David F. Ollis. Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals. 2nd ed. Burr Ridge, IL: McGraw Hill Higher Education, 1986. textbook:Steinfeld, Jeffrey I., J. S. Francisco, and W. L. Hase. Chemical Kinetics and Dynamics. 2nd ed. E. Rutherford, NJ: Prentice Hall PTR, 1998. textbook:Cantor, Charles R., and Paul R. Schimmel. Biophysical Chemistry. New York, NY: Worth Publishers, 1980. textbook:Blanch, Harvey W., and D. S. Clark, eds. Biochemical Engineering. New York, NY: Marcel Dekker, 1997. textbook:Shargel, Leon, et al. Applied Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, 2004. textbook:Carberry, James J. Chemical and Catalytic Reaction Engineering. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1976. textbook:Strogatz, Steven H. Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos: With Applications to Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering. Cambridge, MA: Perseus Publishing, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Tidor,  Karl Wittrup term:Fall 2004 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This subject deals primarily with kinetic and equilibrium mathematical models of biomolecular interactions, as well as the application of these quantitative analyses to biological problems across a wide range of levels of organization, from individual molecular interactions to populations of cells.
20.430J | Fields, Forces, and Flows in Biological Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-430j-fields-forces-and-flows-in-biological-systems-fall-2015 | textbook:Grodzinsky, Alan. Field, Forces and Flows in Biological Systems. Garland Science, 2011. level:Graduate instructors:Mark Bathe,  Alan Grodzinsky term:Fall 2015 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers the fundamental driving forces for transport&mdash;chemical gradients, electrical interactions, and fluid flow&mdash;as applied to the biology and biophysics of molecules, cells, and tissues.
20.440 | Analysis of Biological Networks (BE.440) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-440-analysis-of-biological-networks-be-440-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:John Essigmann,  Ram Sasisekharan term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:This class analyzes complex biological processes from the molecular, cellular, extracellular, and organ levels of hierarchy. Emphasis is placed on the basic biochemical and biophysical principles that govern these processes. Examples of processes to be studied include chemotaxis, the fixation of nitrogen into organic biological molecules, growth factor and hormone mediated signaling cascades, and signaling cascades leading to cell death in response to DNA damage. In each case, the availability of a resource, or the presence of a stimulus, results in some biochemical pathways being turned on while others are turned off. The course examines the dynamic aspects of these processes and details how biochemical mechanistic themes impinge on molecular/cellular/tissue/organ-level functions. Chemical and quantitative views of the interplay of multiple pathways as biological networks are emphasized. Student work culminates in the preparation of a unique grant application in an area of biological networks.
20.441J | Biomaterials-Tissue Interactions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-441j-biomaterials-tissue-interactions-fall-2009 | textbook:[TORA] =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. textbook:Darnell, J. E., H. F. Lodish, and D. Baltimore. "Laminin, Fibronectin and Other Multiadhesive Matrix Glycoproteins." Chapter 23.4 in Molecular Cell Biology. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman, 1990, pp. 920-924. textbook:Ratner, B. D. "Surface Properties of Biomaterials." In Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 21-35. textbook:Andrade, J. D., ed. Excerpts from "Principles of Protein Adsorption." Chapter 1 in Surface and Interfacial Aspects of Biomedical Polymers, Vol. 2. Protein Adsorption. New York, NY: Plenum Press, 1985. textbook:Spector, M., and P. A. Lalor. "In Vivo Assessment of Tissue Compatibility." Chapter 5.3 in Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials. Edited by B. D. Ratner, et al. Burlington, MA: Academic Press, 1996, pp. 220-228. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:This course covers the principles of materials science and cell biology underlying the design of medical implants, artificial organs, and matrices for tissue engineering. Methods for biomaterials surface characterization and analysis of protein adsorption on biomaterials. Molecular and cellular interactions with biomaterials are analyzed in terms of unit cell processes, such as matrix synthesis, degradation, and contraction. Mechanisms underlying wound healing and tissue remodeling following implantation in various organs. Tissue and organ regeneration. Design of implants and prostheses based on control of biomaterials-tissue interactions. Comparative analysis of intact, biodegradable, and bioreplaceable implants by reference to case studies. Criteria for restoration of physiological function for tissues and organs.
20.442 | Molecular Structure of Biological Materials (BE.442) (Fall 2005) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-442-molecular-structure-of-biological-materials-be-442-fall-2005 | textbook:Branden, Carl, and John Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Routledge, 1999. textbook:Stryer, L. Biochemistry. 4th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1995. textbook:Zubay, G. L. Biochemistry. 3rd ed. Dubuque, IA: William C. Brown Publishers, 1993. textbook:Matthews, C. K., and K. E. Van Holde. Biochemistry. 2nd ed. Menlo Park, CA: Benjamin/Cummings Pub. Co., Inc., 1995. textbook:Creighton, T. E. Proteins: Structures and Molecular Properties. 2nd ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, 1993. textbook:Dickerson, R. The Structure and Action of Proteins. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1969. textbook:McGrath, K., and D. Kaplan, eds. Protein-based Materials. Boston, MA: Birkhüaser, 1997. textbook:Ball P. Life's Matrix: A Biography of Water. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2001. textbook:Aggeli, A., et al. Self-assembling Peptide Systems in Biology, Engineering and Medicine. New York, NY: Springer, 2001. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Shuguang Zhang term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:This course, intended for both graduate and upper level undergraduate students, will focus on understanding of the basic molecular structural principles of biological materials. It will address the molecular structures of various materials of biological origin, such as several types of collagen, silk, spider silk, wool, hair, bones, shells, protein adhesives, GFP, and self-assembling peptides. It will also address molecular design of new biological materials applying the molecular structural principles. The long-term goal of this course is to teach molecular design of new biological materials for a broad range of applications. A brief history of biological materials and its future perspective as well as its impact to the society will also be discussed. Several experts will be invited to give guest lectures.
20.450 | Molecular and Cellular Pathophysiology (BE.450) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-450-molecular-and-cellular-pathophysiology-be-450-spring-2005 | textbook:Kumar, Vinay, Abul K. Abbas, and Nelson Fausto, eds. Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Disease. 7th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Saunders, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:David Schauer term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course focuses on the fundamentals of tissue and organ response to injury from a molecular and cellular perspective. There is a special emphasis on disease states that bridge infection, inflammation, immunity, and cancer. The systems approach to pathophysiology includes lectures, critical evaluation of recent scientific papers, and student projects and presentations.This term, we focus on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), chronic-active hepatitis, and hepatitis virus infections. In addition to lectures, students work in teams to critically evaluate and present primary scientific papers.
20.451J | Design of Medical Devices and Implants | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-782j-design-of-medical-devices-and-implants-spring-2006 | textbook:TORA =  Yannas, I. V. Tissue and Organ Regeneration in Adults. New York, NY: Springer-Verlag, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Ioannis Yannas,  Myron Spector term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This design course targets the solution of clinical problems by use of implants and other medical devices. Topics include the systematic use of cell-matrix control volumes; the role of stress analysis in the design process; anatomic fit, shape and size of implants; selection of biomaterials; instrumentation for surgical implantation procedures; preclinical testing for safety and efficacy, including risk/benefit ratio assessment evaluation of clinical performance and design of clinical trials. Student project materials are drawn from orthopedic devices, soft tissue implants, artificial organs, and dental implants.
20.453J | Biomedical Information Technology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-453j-biomedical-information-technology-fall-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:C. Forbes Dewey, Jr.,  Hanry Yu,  Sourav Saha Bhowmick term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course teaches the design of contemporary information systems for biological and medical data. Examples are chosen from biology and medicine to illustrate complete life cycle information systems, beginning with data acquisition, following to data storage and finally to retrieval and analysis. Design of appropriate databases, client-server strategies, data interchange protocols, and computational modeling architectures. Students are expected to have some familiarity with scientific application software and a basic understanding of at least one contemporary programming language (e.g. C, C++, Java, Lisp, Perl, Python). A major term project is required of all students. This subject is open to motivated seniors having a strong interest in biomedical engineering and information system design with the ability to carry out a significant independent project.This course was offered as part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance (SMA) program as course number SMA 5304.
20.462J | Molecular Principles of Biomaterials | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-462j-molecular-principles-of-biomaterials-spring-2006 | textbook:Young, R. J., and P. A. Lovell, eds. "Structure." Chapter 4 in Introduction to Polymers. 2nd ed. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 2000. 241-309. textbook:———. "Drug Administration and Drug Effectiveness." Chapter 2 in Drug Delivery: Engineering Principles for Drug Therapy (Topics in Chemical Engineering). New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. textbook:Flory, Paul J. Principles of Polymer Chemistry. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1953, pp. 464-469 and pp. 576-581. textbook:———. Principles of Polymer Chemistry. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1953, pp. 495-507. textbook:Lodish, Harvey, Arnold Berk, Lawrence Zipursky, Paul Matsudaira, David Baltimore, and James Darnell, eds. "The Extracellular Matrix." In Molecular Biology of the Cell. 4th ed. New York, NY: W.H. Freeman, October 1999, pp. 1124-1150. textbook:Mann, Stephen. Biomineralization: Principles and Concepts in Bioinorganic Materials Chemistry. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2002, chapter 6, pp. 89-102. textbook:Allen, Samuel M., and Edwin L. Thomas. The Structure of Materials (MIT Series in Materials Science and Engineering). New York, NY: Wiley, 1999, pp. 135-138. textbook:Plotkin, Stanley A., Walter A. Orenstein, and Paul A. Offit. "The Immunology of Vaccination." In Vaccines. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders, 2003, pp. 28-39. textbook:Abbas, Abul K., Andrew H. Lichtman, and Jordan S. Pober. "General Properties of Immune Responses." In Cellular and Molecular Immunology. 4th ed. Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders Company, 2000. pp. 3-16. level:Graduate instructors:Darrell Irvine term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:This course covers the analysis and design at a molecular scale of materials used in contact with biological systems, including biotechnology and biomedical engineering. Topics include molecular interactions between bio- and synthetic molecules and surfaces; design, synthesis, and processing approaches for materials that control cell functions; and application of state-of-the-art materials science to problems in tissue engineering, drug delivery, vaccines, and cell-guiding surfaces.
20.482J | Foundations of Algorithms and Computational Techniques in Systems Biology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biological-engineering/20-482j-foundations-of-algorithms-and-computational-techniques-in-systems-biology-spring-2006 | textbook:Schlick, T. Molecular Modeling and Simulation: An Interdisciplinary Guide. New York, NY: Springer, 2002. textbook:Allen, M. P., and D. J. Tildesley. Computer Simulation of Liquids. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1989. textbook:Trefethen, L. N., and D. Bau, III. Numerical Linear Algebra. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1997. textbook:Branden, C.-I., and J. Tooze. Introduction to Protein Structure. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Routledge, 1999. textbook:Bertero, M., and P. Boccacci. Introduction to Inverse Problems in Imaging. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:Bruce Tidor,  Jacob White term:Spring 2006 features:Lecture notes description:This subject describes and illustrates computational approaches to solving problems in systems biology. A series of case-studies will be explored that demonstrate how an effective match between the statement of a biological problem and the selection of an appropriate algorithm or computational technique can lead to fundamental advances. The subject will cover several discrete and numerical algorithms used in simulation, feature extraction, and optimization for molecular, network, and systems models in biology.
20.483J | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-56j-noninvasive-imaging-in-biology-and-medicine-fall-2005 | textbook:Bushberg, Jerrold T., J. Anthony Seibert, Edwin M. Leidholdt, Jr., and John M. Boone. The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. textbook:Cho, Z. H., Joie P. Jones, and Manbir Singh. Foundations of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1993. textbook:Phelps, Michael E. PET: Molecular Imaging and Its Biological Applications. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff term:Fall 2005 features: description:22.56J aims to give graduate students and advanced undergraduates background in the theory and application of noninvasive imaging methods to biology and medicine, with emphasis on neuroimaging. The course focuses on the modalities most frequently used in scientific research (X-ray CT, PET/SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging), and includes discussion of molecular imaging approaches used in conjunction with these scanning methods. Lectures by the professor will be supplemented by in-class discussions of problems in research, and hands-on demonstrations of imaging systems.
20.490J | Foundations of Computational and Systems Biology (Spring 2014) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-91j-foundations-of-computational-and-systems-biology-spring-2014 | textbook:This textbook is recommended for the course: Zvelebil, Marketa J., and Jeremy O. Baum. Understanding Bioinformatics. Garland Science, 2007. textbook:Broman, Karl W., and Saunak Sen. "Single–QTL Analysis." Chapter 4 in A Guide to QTL Mapping with R/qtl. Springer, 2009. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Christopher Burge,  David Gifford,  Ernest Fraenkel term:Spring 2014 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments and solutions, This Course at MIT description:This course is an introduction to computational biology emphasizing the fundamentals of nucleic acid and protein sequence and structural analysis; it also includes an introduction to the analysis of complex biological systems. Topics covered in the course include principles and methods used for sequence alignment, motif finding, structural modeling, structure prediction and network modeling, as well as currently emerging research areas.
