HUMBIO112 | Conservation Biology: A Latin American Perspective (BIO 144, BIO 234) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO112 | instructors:Dirzo, R. (PI) description:Principles and application of the science of preserving biological diversity. Conceptually, this course is designed to explore 4 major components relevant to the conservation of biodiversity, as exemplified by the Latin American region. The conceptual frameworks and principles, however, should be generally applicable, and provide insights for all regions of the world, including those of lesser biodiversity. Satisfies Central Menu Area 4 for Bio majors. Prerequisite: BIO 101, or BIO 43 or HUMBIO 2A with consent of instructor. Graduate level students will be expected to conduct a literature research exercise leading to a written paper, addressing a topic of their choosing, derived from any of the themes discussed in class.
HUMBIO113 | The Human-Plant Connection | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO113 | instructors:Preston, K. (PI) description:The intertwined biologies of humans and plants, particularly the ways in which people and plants have imposed selection pressures and ecological change on one another. Topics include evolution and basic plant structure; plant domestication; effects of agriculture on human health and physiology; plants in traditional and contemporary diets; and human influences on plant biology through genetic manipulation and environmental change. Class meetings center on journal articles. Final project includes written and multimedia presentations. Prerequisites: Human Biology Core or equivalent or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO118 | Theory of Ecological and Environmental Anthropology (ANTHRO 90C) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO118 | instructors:Hazel, M. (PI) description:Dynamics of culturally inherited human behavior and its relationship to social and physical environments. Topics include a history of ecological approaches in anthropology, subsistence ecology, sharing, risk management, territoriality, warfare, and resource conservation and management. Case studies from Australia, Melanesia, Africa, and S. America.
HUMBIO120 | Health Care in America: An Introduction to U.S. Health Policy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO120 | instructors:Barr, D. (PI); Ly, D. (TA) description:Health policy and health care delivery from a historical and a current policy perspective. Introduces cost, quality, and access as measures of health system performance.  Considers institutional aspects of health care reform.
HUMBIO120A | American Health Policy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO120A | instructors:Barr, D. (PI) description:Issues in health care reform and the policy making process, the evolution of current systems, and theories underlying efforts for change. The national search for solutions to the problems of the uninsured, and the feasibility, options, and ramifications of alternative proposals for health care reform. Student presentations. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, Human Biology 120, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO121 | Critical Issues in Child Health | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO121 | instructors:Adam, M. (PI) description:Integrated picture of the physical and psychosocial health factors that result in a healthy child building on principles taught in the Human Biology core. Students apply basic human physiology to the physiology of the child to develop perspective on global pediatric health challenges and how the cultural context influences and defines the child living within it.
HUMBIO121E | Ethnicity and Medicine (FAMMED 244) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO121E | instructors:Garcia, R. (PI) description:Weekly lecture series. Examines the linguistic, social class, and cultural factors that impact patient care. Presentations promote culturally sensitive health care services and review contemporary research issues involving minority and underserved populations. Topics include health care inequities and medical practices of African Americans, Asians, Latinos, Native Americans, immigrants, and refugees in both urban and rural settings. 1 unit requires weekly lecture attendance, completion of required readings, completion of response questions; 2 units requires weekly lecture attendance and discussion session, completion of required readings and weekly response questions; additional requirement for 3 units (HUMBIO only) is completion of a significant term paper Only students taking the course for 3 units may request a letter grade. Enrollment limited to students with sophomore academic standing or above.This course must be taken for a minimum of 3 units to be eligible for Ways credit.
HUMBIO122 | Beyond Health Care: Seeking Health in Society (PEDS 222) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO122 | instructors:Rodriguez, E. (PI) description:Available evidence at the national and cross-country level linking social welfare interventions and health outcomes. If and how non-health programs and policies could have an impact on positive health outcomes.  Evaluation of social programs and policies that buffer the negative health impact of economic instability and unemployment among adult workers and their children. Examination of safety nets, including public health insurance, income maintenance programs, and disability insurance. Prerequisites:  HumBio 4B or equivalent, and some background in research methods and statistics, or Instructor permission.
HUMBIO122M | Challenges of Human Migration: Health and Health Care of Migrants and Autochthonous Populations (PEDS 212) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO122M | instructors:Rodriguez, E. (PI) description:(Undergraduate students must enroll in HUMBIO 122M. MD and Graduate students enroll in PEDS 212) An emerging area of inquiry. Topics include:  global migration trends, health  Issues/aspects of migration,  healthcare and the needs of immigrants in the US, and migrants as healthcare providers: a new area of inquiry in the US.  Class is structured to include: lectures lead by the instructor and possible guest speakers; seminar, discussion and case study sessions led by students.
HUMBIO122S | Social Class, Race, Ethnicity, and Health (AFRICAAM 132) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO122S | instructors:Barr, D. (PI) description:Examines health disparities in the U.S., looking at the patterns of those disparities and their root causes. Explores the intersection of lower social class and ethnic minority status in affecting health status and access to health care. Compares social and biological conceptualizations of race and ethnicity.
HUMBIO123 | Obesity in America: Clinical and Public Health Implications (CHPR 223) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO123 | instructors:Rosas, L. (PI) description:(HumBio students must enroll in HumBio 123.)Interdisciplinary clinical, research, and policy approaches. The prevalence, predictors, and consequences of obesity and diabetes; biological and physiological mechanisms; clinical treatments including medications and surgery; and the relevance of behavioral, environmental, economic, and policy approaches to obesity prevention and control. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO124C | Global Child Health | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO124C | instructors:Maldonado, Y. (PI); Sarnquist, C. (PI) description:This course will introduce key challenges to the health and wellbeing of children worldwide, with a particular focus on children in low- and middle-income countries. It will review the leading causes of morbidity and mortality, identify interventions to address some of the biggest child health problems, and provide an overview of the roles of culture, gender, and civil society on child health and health policy.
HUMBIO124E | Economics of Infectious Disease and Global Health (MED 236) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO124E | instructors:Alsan, M. (PI) description:Introduction to global health topics such as childhood health, hygiene, drug resistance, and pharmaceutical industries from an economic development perspective. Introduces economic concepts including decision-making over time, externalities, and incentives as they relate to health. Prerequisite: Human Biology Core or equivalent or consent of the instructor.
HUMBIO125 | Current Topics and Controversies in Women's Health (FEMGEN 256, OBGYN 256) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO125 | instructors:Stefanick, M. (PI) description:Interdisciplinary.  Focus is primarily on the U.S., with selected global women's health topics. Topics include: leading causes of morbidity and mortality across the life course; reproductive (e.g. gynecologic & obstetric) health issues; sexual function; importance of lifestyle (e.g. diet, exercise, weight control), including eating disorders; mental health; sexual and relationship abuse; issues for special populations.  In-class Student Debates on key controversies in women's health. Guest lecturers. HUMBIO students must enroll in HumBio 125 for 3 units. PhD minor in FGSS, enroll in FEMGEN 256 for 2 - 3 units and for a letter grade. Med students enroll in OBGYN 256 for 2 units.
HUMBIO126 | Promoting Health Over the Life Course: Multidisciplinary Perspectives (CHPR 226) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO126 | instructors:Alles, W. (PI); Stefanick, M. (PI) description:(HUMBIO students must enroll in HumBio 126.) Disease prevention and health promotion topics pertinent to different stages of the life span emphasizing healthy lifestyle and reducing risk factors in both individuals and communities. Focus is on scientific investigation, the application of behavioral science to risk reduction strategies, and the importance of health promotion as a social and economic imperative. Topics include: epidemiology of chronic diseases; social determinants of health, behavior change; obesity, nutrition, and stress; children, young adult, mid-life and aging health issues; health care delivery and public health system; workplace wellness programs; and other additional issues. Students enrolled in CHPR 226 must complete additional assignments appropriate for its Masters level listing. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO126A | Advanced Seminar in Health and Security | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO126A | instructors:Stedman, S. (PI); Wise, P. (PI) description:In this course, we explore the growing interconnections between health and security. Global health can no longer be addressed without some important consideration of international security as war, civil conflict and political instability have increasingly defined the health challenges in major parts of the world. This course will address the interaction of three types of security: human, national, and international. Health is obviously a component of human security. However, it has also been raised as a concern of national and international security, particularly in areas where HIV/AIDS and Ebola have been prevalent and where the risk of pandemic outbreaks is high. This course will bring together a cross-disciplinary examination of these issues and address the opportunities and potential risks of tightly linking the provision of essential health services to security considerations. We will use case studies to explore both the conceptual and technical issues inherent in health and security. The challenges of Ebola, HIV, complex humanitarian emergencies, and pandemics will be explored in detail. As part of each discussion, the intense interaction of biology, service delivery, political legitimacy, human rights, and international relations will be examined.
HUMBIO127A | Community Health: Assessment and Planning I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO127A | instructors:Heaney, C. (PI) description:Major determinants of health in a community. Working with community partners to identify health issues and plan programs and policies to prevent disease and promote health. Service learning component involving students in community health assessment techniques. Final grade given upon completion of HUMBIO 127B. Service Learning Course (certified by Haas Center). Prerequisite: 4B or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO127B | Community Health: Assessment and Planning II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO127B | instructors:Heaney, C. (PI) description:Continuation of 127A. Service learning course with emphasis on conducting community health assessment and planning projects in collaboration with community-based organizations. Service Learning Course (certified by Haas Center). Prerequisite: 4B or equivalent, 127A, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO128 | Community Health Psychology (PSYCH 101) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO128 | instructors:Heaney, C. (PI) description:Social ecological perspective on health emphasizing how individual health behavior is shaped by social forces. Topics include: biobehavioral factors in health; health behavior change; community health promotion; and psychological aspects of illness, patient care, and chronic disease management. Prerequisites: HUMBIO 3B or PSYCH 1, or equivalent.
HUMBIO129 | Critical Issues in International Women's Health (FEMGEN 129) | http://HUMBIO129.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Women's lives, from childhood through adolescence, reproductive years, and aging. Economic, social, and human rights factors, and the importance of women's capacities to have good health and manage their lives in the face of societal pressures and obstacles. Emphasis is on life or death issues of women's health that depend on women's capacity to exercise their human rghts including maternal mortality, violence, HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, and sex trafficking. Organizations addressing these issues.  A requirement of this class is participation in public blogs. Prerequisites: Human Biology core or equivalent or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO129S | Global Public Health | http://HUMBIO129S.stanford.edu | instructors:Darmstadt, G. (PI); Wise, P. (PI) description:The class is an introduction to the fields of international public health and global medicine. It focuses on resource poor areas of the world and explores major global health problems and their relation to policy, economic development and human rights.  The course is intended for students interested in global health, development studies, or international relations, and provides opportunities for in-depth discussion and interaction with experts in the field. .
HUMBIO130 | Human Nutrition (CHPR 130) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO130 | instructors:Gardner, C. (PI) description:The study of food, and the nutrients and substances therein. Their action, interaction, and balance in relation to health and disease. Emphasis is on the biological, chemical, and physiological processes by which humans ingest, digest, absorb, transport, utilize, and excrete food. Dietary composition and individual choices are discussed in relationship to the food supply, and to population and cultural, race, ethnic, religious, and social economic diversity. The relationships between nutrition and disease; ethnic diets; vegetarianism; nutritional deficiencies; nutritional supplementation; phytochemicals.  HUMBIO students must enroll in HUMBIO 130.
HUMBIO133 | Human Physiology (BIO 112) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO133 | instructors:Kao, P. (PI) description:Human physiology will be examined by organ systems: cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, gastrointestinal and endocrine. Molecular and cell biology and signaling principles that underlie organ development, pathophysiology and opportunities for regenerative medicine are discussed, as well as integrative control mechanisms and fetal development.  Prerequisite: Biology or Human Biology core.
HUMBIO135 | Exercise Physiology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO135 | instructors:Friedlander, A. (PI) description:Explore the amazing capacity of your body to move and adapt within your everyday world. You will learn: how your body systems respond to the stress of acute exercise and adapt to chronic exercise training, how your cardiovascular system adapts to optimize oxygen delivery and utilization, how your muscles generate force and hypertrophy in response to training, and how your metabolic/biochemical pathways are regulated to support the increased energy demand of exercise. We will discuss theories on the causes of fatigue and muscle soreness, and on what limits human performance. Applied topics such as the effects of aging, gender, and environmental conditions (high altitude, heat, cold, microgravity) on your body will be emphasized in the second half of the course. Portions of the class will be taught through videos that use online lectures and engaging stories to illustrate physiology concepts. Prerequisite: Human Biology core, Biology core, or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO135S | Applied Topics in Exercise Physiology and Metabolism | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO135S | instructors:Friedlander, A. (PI) description:Discussions of controversial topics in exercise physiology, sports performance, aging and environmental physiology.  Special focus on how to read/evaluate research papers, how to get science out of the lab through better communication, and how basic and applied science is used to develop novel training programs and new medical devices. Students will learn the fundamentals of science storytelling and mixed media presentation of ideas. Requirements of this class include participating in blogs & in-class discussions, evaluations of physiology research, writing a research paper, and creation of a science-based story to share with the class. If class is full, contact instructor for an application. Enrollment limited to 10. Prerequisites: B+ or higher in HB135 and/or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO136 | Human Physiology Laboratory (BIO 107) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO136 | instructors: description:This laboratory course is active and inquiry based. Aspects of exercise and temperature are explored; however, the specific questions the class tackles differ each quarter. Samples of past questions: Does lactic acid accumulation correlate with exercise fatigue at different exercise and body temperatures? Does palm cooling during exercise mitigate the effect of body temperature on fatigue with or without evaporative cooling? Students participate both as experimenters and as subjects of the experiments in two-person teams. Participants must be in good physical condition, though not necessarily athletes, and must be willing to participate in strenuous exercise routines under adverse environmental conditions. Varsity athletes concurrently participating in a spring sport must consult the instructor before applying. Discussion sessions include student presentations of journal articles, data analyses, and feedback on individual WIM research proposals. By application only, see sites.stanford.edu/bio107humbio136 for the application form. Prerequisite: Bio 42 or HumBio 4A. Satisfies WIM for Biology.
HUMBIO139E | Sport and Exercise Medicine | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO139E | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI) description:This is an upper division course taught by the course directors and guest lecturers (experts from the field of sports and exercise medicine), with a common theme of injury and illness prevention in sport and physical activity. The course is organized into three modules: Disease Prevention by Design, Concussion in Sport, and Injury Prevention in Sport and Exercise. The topics include wellness and the prevention of chronic disease, the balance point between health and harm in sports, clinical and sports biomechanics, injury prevention theories, ethical issues in return-to-play decisions, the role of sports medicine in the prevention of chronic disease through exercise, and common sports injuries and illnesses. Students will develop critical reading and thinking skills as well as oral presentation skills and the confidence to engage in verbal exchange. Every other class session is a discussion class involving hands-on activities and group discussions.
HUMBIO140 | Sex and Gender in Human Physiology and Disease (FEMGEN 241, MED 240) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO140 | instructors:Stefanick, M. (PI) description:(HumBio students must enroll in HumBio 140.) Chromosomal, hormonal and environmental influences that lead to male and female reproductive systems and neuroendocrine regulation and intersex variants. Masculinizing and feminizing effects of endogenous and exogenous sex hormones and other factors, in particular gender, on the musculoskeletal, neurological, cardiovascular, immunological and other systems and tissues, e.g. adipose, skin, etc. over the lifecourse, from conception to puberty, through reproductive phases (including changes during the menstrual cycle up to and beyond menopause in women, and with aging in both sexes). Transgender health issues. Guest lecturers. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, or consent of instructor. HUMBIO students must enroll for 3 units.
HUMBIO142 | Adolescent Development | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO142 | instructors:Medoff, L. (PI) description:Underlying changes and their consequences in everyday functioning.  Physical, cognitive, social, and sexual development; how these changes influence the emerging sense of identity, autonomy, and intimacy.  Contexts in which adolescents move such as family, friends and peers, school, and workplace. Focus is on normal development of boys and girls; attention to problem outcomes including eating disorders, depression, and teen pregnancy. Prerequisite: 3B or PSYCH 1, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO143 | Adolescent Sexuality | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO143 | instructors:Medoff, L. (PI) description:Developmental perspective. Issues related to scientific, historical, and cultural perceptions; social influences on sexual development; sexual risk; and the limitations and future directions of research. Sexual identity and behavior, sexually transmitted diseases including HIV, pregnancy, abortion, gay and lesbian youth, sex education and condom availability in schools, mass media, exploitative sexual activity, and difficulties and limitations in studying adolescent sexuality. Legal and policy issues, gender differences, and international and historical trends. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO145L | The Biology and Evolution of Language (ANTHRO 171, ANTHRO 271) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO145L | instructors:Fox, J. (PI) description:Lecture course surveying the biology, linguistic functions, and evolution of the organs of speech and speech centers in the brain, language in animals and humans, the evolution of language itself, and the roles of innateness vs. culture in language. Suitable both for general education and as preparation for further studies in anthropology, biology, linguistics, medicine, psychology, and speech & language therapy.  Anthropology concentration: CS, EE. No prerequisites.
HUMBIO149 | Psychological and Educational Resilience Among Children and Youth (EDUC 256) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO149 | instructors:Padilla, A. (PI) description:Theoretical, methodological, and empirical issues pertaining to the psychological and educational resilience of children and adolescents. Overview of the resilience framework, including current terminology and conceptual and measurement issues. Adaptive systems that enable some children to achieve successful adaptation despite high levels of adversity exposure. How resilience can be studied across multiple levels of analysis, ranging from cell to society. Individual, family, school, and community risk and protective factors that influence children's development and adaptation. Intervention programs designed to foster resilient adaptation in disadvantaged children's populations.
HUMBIO151R | Biology, Health and Big Data | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO151R | instructors:Salmeen, A. (PI) description:We are living in the midst of a revolution in the accessibility and availability of biological and medical data. How can all this data be used to improve human health? In this course, students will look at case studies from diabetes and cancer research to learn how to access publicly available data ranging from gene or protein level datasets to information about clinical trials. Students will apply what they learn from the case studies to develop a research proposal and presentation on a biology-related topic of their choice. The class will have a small group workshop-type format. Students will gain skills in research methods including accessing, analyzing and presenting data. There will be exercises using the statistical package R. Prior programming experience is not required. Prerequisites: HumBio 2A, 3A or equivalent.
HUMBIO152 | Viral Lifestyles | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO152 | instructors:Wolfe, N. (PI) description:Viral lifestyles is a seminar devoted to exploring contemporary topics in microbiology with a focus on the examination of the major transitions in evolution. The course includes lectures and will provide an opportunity for students to interact with each other, the instructor and guest lecturers to explore novel research areas in microbiology that are still being formed. The course will begin with lectures on topics such as the major transitions framework, postulated by John Maynard Smith and Eors Szathmary, proposes that major leaps in evolution follow the same roadmap, where individual entities come together to form complex individuals, in the process giving up their ability to reproduce independently. and will transition to presentation and discussion led by student groups. A significant percentage of class will be devoted to presentation and discussion focused on group projects. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or Biology core or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO153 | Parasites and Pestilence: Infectious Public Health Challenges | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO153 | instructors:Smith, D. (PI) description:Parasitic and other pestilence of public health importance. Pathogenesis, clinical syndromes, complex life cycles, and the interplay among environment, vectors, hosts, and reservoirs in historical context. Public health policy initiatives aimed at halting disease transmission. World Health Organization tropical disease targets including river blindness, sleeping sickness, leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis, mycobacterial disease (tuberculosis and leprosy), malaria, toxoplasmosis, dracunculiais, and intestinal helminthes. Guest lecturers with expertise in disease control. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO154A | Engineering Better Health Systems: modeling for public health (CHPR 254) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO154A | instructors:Basu, S. (PI) description:This course teaches engineering, operations research and modeling techniques to improve public health programs and systems. Students will engage in in-depth study of disease detection and control strategies from a "systems science" perspective, which involves the use of common engineering, operations research, and mathematical modeling techniques such as optimization, queuing theory, Markov and Kermack-McKendrick models, and microsimulation. Lectures and problem sets will focus on applying these techniques to classical public health dilemmas such as how to optimize screening programs, reduce waiting times for healthcare services, solve resource allocation problems, and compare macro-scale disease control strategies that cannot be easily evaluated through randomized trials. Readings will complement the lectures and problem sets by offering critical perspectives from the public health history, sociology, and epidemiology. In-depth case studies from non-governmental organizations, departments of public health, and international agencies will drive the course. Prerequisites: A course in introductory statistics, and a course in multivariable calculus including ordinarily differential equations. Open to upper-division undergraduate students.
HUMBIO154B | Principles of Epidemiology, with an emphasis on women's health | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO154B | instructors:Kurina, L. (PI) description:Epidemiology is the study of the distribution and determinants of health and disease in human populations. Utilizing the lens of women's health, this course will introduce students to the basic principles of epidemiological study design, analysis, and interpretation. The course will draw on critical topics in women's health for lectures, discussions, readings and assignments. Research articles from epidemiology as well as other social science disciplines will be utilized to offer students multiple perspectives on contemporary women's health issues. Human Biology 154 courses can be taken separately or as a series. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO154C | Cancer Epidemiology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO154C | instructors: description:Clinical epidemiological methods relevant to human research in cancer will be the focus. The concepts of risk; case control, cohort, and cross-sectional studies; clinical trials; bias; confounding; interaction; screening; and causal inference will be introduced and applied. Social, political, economic, and ethical controversies surrounding cancer screening, prevention, and research will be considered. Human Biology 154 courses can be taken separately or as a series. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, or instructor consent.
HUMBIO155H | Humans and Viruses I (MI 155A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO155H | instructors:Siegel, R. (PI) description:Introduction to human virology integrating epidemiology, molecular biology, clinical sciences, social sciences, history, and the arts. Emphasis is on host pathogen interactions and policy issues. Topics: polio and vaccination, smallpox and eradication, yellow fever and history, influenza and genomic diversity, rubella and childhood infections, adenovirus and viral morphology, ebola and emerging infection, lassa fever and immune response. Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in MI 155B or HUMBIO 155V.
HUMBIO155V | Humans and Viruses II (MI 155B) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO155V | instructors:Siegel, R. (PI) description:Introduction to human virology integrating epidemiology, molecular biology, clinical sciences, social sciences, history, and the arts. Emphasis on host pathogen interactions and policy issues. Topics: measles and viral epidemiology, rotavirus and world health, rabies and infections of the brain, HPV and cancer -causing viruses, herpes simplex and viral latency, CMV and viral teratogenesis, retrovirology and endogenous viral sequences, HIV and viral treatement, viral hepatitis and chronic infections, prions and diseases of life style. Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment with MI155A or HUMBIO 155H.
HUMBIO157 | The Biology of Stem Cells | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO157 | instructors:Fuller, M. (PI); Nusse, R. (PI) description:The role of stem cells in human development and potential for treating disease. Guest lectures by biologists, ethicists, and legal scholars. Prerequisites:HumBio 2A and 3A, or the equivalent in the BioCore in Biological Sciences.
HUMBIO158 | The Human Genome and Disease (BIO 109A, BIOC 109A, BIOC 209A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO158 | instructors:Davis, R. (PI); Heller, R. (PI) description:The variability of the human genome and the role of genomic information in research, drug discovery, and human health. Concepts and interpretations of genomic markers in medical research and real life applications. Human genomes in diverse populations. Original contributions from thought leaders in academia and industry and interaction between students and guest lecturers. Students with a major, minor or coterm in Biology: 109A/209A or 109B/209B may count toward degree program but not both.
HUMBIO159 | Genes and Environment in Disease Causation: Implications for Medicine and Public Health (HRP 238) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO159 | instructors:Popat, R. (PI) description:The historical, contemporary, and future research and practice among genetics, epidemiology, clinical medicine, and public health as a source of insight for medicine and public health. Genetic and environmental contributions to multifactorial diseases; multidisciplinary approach to enhancing detection and diagnosis. The impact of the Human Genome Project on analysis of cardiovascular and neurological diseases, and cancer. Ethical and social issues in the use of genetic information. Prerequisite: basic course in genetics; for undergraduates, Human Biology core or equivalent or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO15SC | Parks and Peoples in Patagonia: Dilemmas of Protected Area Conservation (ANTHRO 25SC) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO15SC | instructors:Durham, W. (PI) description:This course uses the diverse parks and reserves of Patagonia as a laboratory for understanding the pros and cons of protected area conservation as they impact flora, fauna, and local people.  We will explore national parks and protected areas (PAs) in both Argentina and Chile, as well as the flourishing establishment of private parks and reserves in the region. We will use a series of case studies to ask: (1) What approach to protected area (PA) conservation has been taken in each case? Who are/were the key proponents and what are/were their main objectives? Was climate change taken into account and if so, how? (2) What have been the main costs and benefits of the PA, and who has received them?  Where benefits are not commensurate to costs what is being done to address the imbalance? And (3) Are there alternatives or variations-on-the-theme of protected area conservation that would be more beneficial for wildlife and local people?  How could the interests of parks and people be made more compatible in each case?  Throughout the course we will look for ways to achieve conservation in a manner that is socially just, biologically successful, and beneficial to local livelihoods.nnThe class will begin on the Stanford campus at the same time as other Sophomore College courses.  But on Sept. 12 we depart on an intensive thirteen-day expedition (at no extra cost) to Argentina and Chile to observe firsthand many of the conservation issues and successes discussed in class. For this portion of the class, undergraduates will be joined by a group of Stanford alumni and friends in a format called a Stanford "Field Seminar." Because our class time on campus is limited to one week before travel, students will be required to complete all course readings over the summer. Both on campus and in South America, the course emphasizes student contributions and presentations. Students will be asked to lead discussions and carry out literature research on the conservation challenges of particular Patagonian protected areas and species. The final assignment for the seminar is to complete a seven- to ten-page paper on their findings and to present the main conclusions of that paper in a joint seminar of undergrads and alumni as we travel in Patagonia.  nnNote: Students will arrive on campus and will be housed at Stanford until we leave for Patagonia. The travel components of the course are organized and managed by the Travel/Study Program of the Stanford Alumni Association.  The costs of the trip (except incidentals) are included, thanks to the support of the Stanford Field Seminar Fund and generous donors.  Students will return to campus on Sunday, September 25, the day before the fall term begins. Sophomore College course, applications required. Submit by April 5, 2016 at http://soco.stanford.edu .
HUMBIO161 | The Neurobiology of Sleep (BIO 149, BIO 249) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO161 | instructors: description:Preference to seniors and graduate students. The neurochemistry and neurophysiology of changes in brain activity and conscious awareness associated with changes in the sleep/wake state. Behavioral and neurobiological phenomena including sleep regulation, sleep homeostasis, circadian rhythms, sleep disorders, sleep function, and the molecular biology of sleep. Enrollment limited to 16.
HUMBIO164 | Autism Spectrum Disorder | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO164 | instructors:Colamarino, S. (PI); Hallmayer, J. (PI); O'hara, R. (PI) description:Abnormal social deficits, language development and repetitive behaviors, are the core symptoms of Autism Spectrum  Disorder (ASD), a group of neurodevelopmental disorders that affect about 1% of all children and costs society an estimated $268B annually. This interactive seminar course will provide an overview of our understanding of ASD, from genetics through epidemiology, biology and treatment, and the many implications for society, including the principles and problems of diagnosis, its impact upon family and across the lifespan, and controversies regarding its etiology, perception and care. Preference given to Seniors. Prerequisite: HumBio or Bio core or consent of instructor
HUMBIO165 | Frontiers in Global Mental Health | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO165 | instructors:Reicherter, D. (PI) description:This class will increase awareness of global mental health issues and social disparities while developing tools to address associated challenges both at home and abroad.  Special attention will be placed on human rights issues including access to mental health care and the mental health of survivors of human rights abuses.
HUMBIO166 | Food and Society: Exploring Eating Behaviors in Social, Environmental, and Policy Context (CHPR 166) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO166 | instructors:Gardner, C. (PI); Robinson, T. (PI) description:The class examines the array of forces that affect the foods human beings eat, and when, where, and how we eat them, including human labor, agriculture, environmental sustainability, politics, animal rights/welfare, ethics, policy, culture, economics, business, law, trade, and ideology, and psychology. The class addresses the impact of current policies and actions that might be taken to improve human nutrition and health; macro-scale influences on food, nutrition, and eating behavior. Prerequisite: Human Biology Core or equivalent or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO167 | The Art of Vision | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO167 | instructors:Marmor, M. (PI) description:This course concerns eyes and art. It asks how eyes are built, how they process visual information, and how they are affected by diseases that are major problems in our society. These topics are illustrated through fine art and famous artists, and we explore the implications of both normal and abnormal vision for art. There are short diversions into animal eyes and the role of vision in music, literature, and sports.
HUMBIO168 | Multidisciplinary Perspectives on Guilt | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO168 | instructors:Katchadourian, H. (PI) description:The seminar encompasses the personal and cultural components of guilt from multidisciplinary perspectives. At the individual level, it explores behaviors that induce guilt; their relational aspects; genesis  in evolutionary and developmental terms: and its normal and pathological manifestations. The cultural section includes cross-cultural perspectives on guilt and its conceptions in Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Confucianism; as well as in the philosophy of Aristotle, Kant, J. S Mill and Nietzsche, and culpability in the law. Derived from this material, the course will also focus on the nature of ethical reasoning and the ways we make ethical choices and judgments in our lives.
HUMBIO170 | Justice, Policy, and Science | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO170 | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI) description:The role of science in civil rights, justice, policy, criminal justice, evidence, education, and disabled rights.
HUMBIO170A | Sex and the Law | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO170A | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI) description:This course uses an interdisciplinary approach to examine the laws and regulation of sex in the United States by considering the legal, policy, social, political and scientific bases (or lack thereof) of such laws, the context and objectives of sex regulation, and the political dynamics of contemporary and controversial issues presented by this subject.  Some laws reflect policies to protect persons from harm related to sexual conduct, such as rape, assault and pedophilia.  Other laws impose notions of morality, such as sodomy, incest or polygamy, or homosexuality, or reflect policy or social judgments regarding abortion, contraceptives, and sexual activity of minors.  Regulation often concern consensual conduct.  This course will consider these topics from varying perspectives and policy objectives, and in the context of Constitutional and other liberty interests.
HUMBIO171 | The Death Penalty: Human Biology, Law, and Policy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO171 | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI) description:Combines academic study with student participation in forensic research and case investigation, including DNA evidence, psychological and physiological development, mental and physical disabilities, and witness interviews. The philosophy, structure, and application of capital punishment in the U.S. Goal is to examine and challenge the issues involved in the death penalty from the perspective of involvement in a real case. Course not taught from a preconceived belief or political or philosophical agenda except to involve students in an intellectual challenge of policy and philosophy.
HUMBIO174 | Foundations of Bioethics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO174 | instructors:Magnus, D. (PI) description:Classic articles, legal cases, and foundational concepts. Theoretical approaches derived from philosophy. The ethics of medicine and research on human subjects, assisted reproductive technologies, genetics, cloning, and stem cell research. Ethical issues at the end of life. Prerequisite: Human Biology core or equivalent, or consent of instructor.
HUMBIO175H | Literature and Human Experimentation (AFRICAAM 223, COMPLIT 223, CSRE 123B, MED 220) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO175H | instructors:Ikoku, A. (PI) description:This course introduces students to the ways literature has been used to think through the ethics of human subjects research and experimental medicine. We will focus primarily on readings that imaginatively revisit experiments conducted on vulnerable populations: namely groups placed at risk by their classification according to perceived human and cultural differences. We will begin with Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (1818), and continue our study via later works of fiction, drama and literary journalism, including Toni Morrison's Beloved, David Feldshuh's Miss Evers Boys, Hannah Arendt's Eichmann and Vivien Spitz's Doctors from Hell, Rebecca Skloot's Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, and Kazuo Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go. Each literary reading will be paired with medical, philosophical and policy writings of the period; and our ultimate goal will be to understand modes of ethics deliberation that are possible via creative uses of the imagination, and literature's place in a history of ethical thinking about humane research and care.
HUMBIO175L | Literature and Global Health (AFRICAAM 229, AFRICAST 229, COMPLIT 229, CSRE 129B, FRENCH 229, MED 234) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO175L | instructors:Ikoku, A. (PI) description:This course examines the ways writers in literature and medicine have used the narrative form to explore the ethics of care in what has been called the developing world. We will begin with a call made by the editor-in-chief of The Lancet for a literature of global health, namely fiction modeled on the social reform novels of the nineteenth century, understood to have helped readers develop a conscience for public health as the field emerged as a modern medical specialty. We will then spend the quarter understanding how colonial, postcolonial, and world literatures have answered and complicated this call. Readings will include prose fiction by Albert Camus, Joseph Conrad, Tsitsi Dangaremgba, Amitav Ghosh, Susan Sontag as well as physician memoirs featuring Frantz Fanon, Albert Schweitzer, Abraham Verghese, Paul Farmer. And each literary reading will be paired with medical, philosophical, and policy writings that deeply inform the field of global health.
HUMBIO176A | Medical Anthropology (ANTHRO 82, ANTHRO 282) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO176A | instructors:Garcia, A. (PI) description:Emphasis is on how health, illness, and healing are understood, experienced, and constructed in social, cultural, and historical contexts. Topics: biopower and body politics, gender and reproductive technologies, illness experiences, medical diversity and social suffering, and the interface between medicine and science.
HUMBIO178 | Ethics and Politics of Public Service (CSRE 178, ETHICSOC 133, PHIL 175A, PHIL 275A, POLISCI 133, PUBLPOL 103D, URBANST 122) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO178 | instructors:Schnaubelt, T. (PI); Terra, L. (PI) description:Ethical and political questions in public service work, including volunteering, service learning, humanitarian assistance, and public service professions such as medicine and teaching. Motives and outcomes in service work. Connections between service work and justice. Is mandatory service an oxymoron? History of public service in the U.S. Issues in crosscultural service work. Integration with the Haas Center for Public Service to connect service activities and public service aspirations with academic experiences at Stanford.
HUMBIO178T | Human Trafficking: Historical, Legal, and Medical Perspectives (CSRE 5C, EMED 5C, FEMGEN 5C, HISTORY 5C) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO178T | instructors:Jolluck, K. (PI); Lippert, S. (PI); Van Schaack, B. (PI); Walker, R. (PI) description:(Same as History 105C. History majors and others taking 5 units, enroll in 105C.) Interdisciplinary approach to understanding the extent and complexity of the global phenomenon of human trafficking, especially for forced prostitution, labor exploitation, and organ trade, focusing on human rights violations and remedies. Provides a historical context for the development and spread of human trafficking. Analyzes the current international and domestic legal and policy frameworks to combat trafficking and evaluates their practical implementation. Examines the medical, psychological, and public health issues involved. Uses problem-based learning.  Students interested in service learning should consult with the instructor and will enroll in an additional course.
HUMBIO180 | Human Skeletal Anatomy (ANTHRO 175, ANTHRO 275, BIO 174, BIO 274) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO180 | instructors:Klein, R. (PI) description:Study of the human skeleton (a. k. a. human osteology), as it bears on other disciplines, including medicine, forensics, archaeology, and paleoanthropology (human evolution).  Basic bone biology, anatomy, and development, emphasizing hands-on examination and identification of human skeletal parts, their implications for determining an individual¿s age, sex, geographic origin, and health status, and for the evolutionary history of our species.  Three hours of lecture and at least three hours of supervised and independent study in the lab each week.
HUMBIO182 | Peopling of the Globe: Changing Patterns of Land Use and Consumption Over the Last 50,000 Years (ANTHRO 18, ARCHLGY 12, EARTHSYS 21) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO182 | instructors: description:Fossil, genetic and archaeological evidence suggest that modern humans began to disperse out of Africa about 50,000 years ago. Subsequently, humans have colonized every major landmass on earth. This class introduces students to the data and issues regarding human dispersal, migration and colonization of continents and islands around the world. We explore problems related to the timing and cause of colonizing events, and investigate questions about changing patterns of land use, demography and consumption. Students are introduced to critical relationships between prehistoric population changes and our contemporary environmental crisis.
HUMBIO191 | Human Biology Practicum | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO191 | instructors:Fisher, P. (PI); Cacciari, L. (GP); Kramer, M. (GP) description:Restricted to Human Biology majors. For students who have undertaken supervised community-engaged service, research (e.g. HB-REX, Bio-X) or pre-professional experiences related to their Area of Concentration topic.  Includes a series of five required workshops, written reflection and presentation.  Satisfies the Capstone Requirement of the major.
HUMBIO192A | Human Biology Synthesis | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO192A | instructors:Preston, K. (PI); Cacciari, L. (GP); Kramer, M. (GP) description:Co-Requisite HUMBIO 191. Restricted to Human Biology majors. Expands the work of the Human Biology Practicum; (can also focus on a different aspect of the Area of Concentration).  Allows students the opportunity to craft a culminating, creative work of scholarship based on a synthesis of personal and academic interests, including service projects.  Exhibited during senior year.
HUMBIO192S | Human Biology Synthesis | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO192S | instructors:Preston, K. (PI); Cacciari, L. (GP); Kramer, M. (GP) description:Co-Requisite HUMBIO 191. Restricted to Human Biology majors. Expands the work of the Human Biology Practicum; (can also focus on a different aspect of the Area of Concentration).  Allows students the opportunity to craft a culminating, creative work of scholarship based on a synthesis of personal and academic interests, including service projects.  Exhibited during senior year.
HUMBIO192W | Human Biology Synthesis | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO192W | instructors:Preston, K. (PI); Cacciari, L. (GP); Kramer, M. (GP) description:Co-Requisite HUMBIO 191. Restricted to Human Biology majors. Expands the work of the Human Biology Practicum; (can also focus on a different aspect of the Area of Concentration).  Allows students the opportunity to craft a culminating, creative work of scholarship based on a synthesis of personal and academic interests, including service projects.  Exhibited during senior year.
HUMBIO193 | Research in Human Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO193 | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI); Adam, M. (PI); Alles, W. (PI); Barr, D. (PI); Bendavid, E. (PI); Carlson, J. (PI); Chu, J. (PI); Corso, I. (PI); Dhabhar, F. (PI); Dirzo, R. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Eggleston, K. (PI); Feldman, H. (PI); Fernald, A. (PI); Fernald, R. (PI); Fisher, P. (PI); Frank, M. (PI); Friedlander, A. (PI); Fuller, M. (PI); Gardner, C. (PI); Giffard, R. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Gotlib, I. (PI); Gross, J. (PI); Heaney, C. (PI); Heller, H. (PI); Helms, J. (PI); Imam, J. (PI); Koopman, C. (PI); Lyons, D. (PI); Maldonado, Y. (PI); Medoff, L. (PI); Miller, G. (PI); Monje-Deisseroth, M. (PI); Nusse, R. (PI); Obradovic, J. (PI); Preston, K. (PI); Robinson, T. (PI); Rosas, L. (PI); Shen, K. (PI); Siegel, R. (PI); Smith, D. (PI); Stafford, R. (PI); Stefanick, M. (PI); Talbot, W. (PI); Weissman, I. (PI); Wine, J. (PI); Wise, P. (PI); Wolf, J. (PI) description:Independent research conducted under faculty supervision, in junior or senior year, normally but not necessarily in pursuit of an honors project.  May be taken for a maximum 3 quarters of credit.  Prerequisite: Faculty approval; application available in student services office.
HUMBIO194 | Honors | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO194 | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI); Adam, M. (PI); Alles, W. (PI); Barr, D. (PI); Bendavid, E. (PI); Carlson, J. (PI); Chu, J. (PI); Corso, I. (PI); Dhabhar, F. (PI); Dirzo, R. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Eggleston, K. (PI); Feldman, H. (PI); Feldman, M. (PI); Fernald, A. (PI); Fernald, R. (PI); Fisher, P. (PI); Frank, M. (PI); Friedlander, A. (PI); Fuller, M. (PI); Gardner, C. (PI); Giffard, R. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Gotlib, I. (PI); Gross, J. (PI); Heaney, C. (PI); Heller, H. (PI); Helms, J. (PI); Imam, J. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Koopman, C. (PI); Lyons, D. (PI); Maldonado, Y. (PI); Medoff, L. (PI); Miller, G. (PI); Monje-Deisseroth, M. (PI); Nusse, R. (PI); Obradovic, J. (PI); Parker, K. (PI); Parsonnet, J. (PI); Popat, R. (PI); Preston, K. (PI); Robinson, T. (PI); Rosas, L. (PI); Shen, K. (PI); Siegel, R. (PI); Smith, D. (PI); Stafford, R. (PI); Stefanick, M. (PI); Steinman, L. (PI); Talbot, W. (PI); Weissman, I. (PI); Wine, J. (PI); Wise, P. (PI); Wolf, J. (PI); Yang, F. (PI) description:Restricted to Human Biology majors. Completion of the honors project, normally taken in the student's final quarter. First component: the honors thesis, a final paper providing evidence of rigorous research, fully referenced, and written in an accepted scientific style. Second component: participation in the honors symposium, including a 10-minute oral presentation followed by a brief question and answer session. Prerequisites: 193 or 199, and acceptance into the honors program.
HUMBIO197 | Human Biology Internship | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO197 | instructors:Fisher, P. (PI); Cacciari, L. (GP); Kramer, M. (GP) description:Limited to and required of Human Biology majors. A supervised field, community, or lab experience of student's choosing, pre-approved by Human Biology faculty and student advisers, and initiated at least three quarters prior to graduation. Participation in a poster session on the internship experience is required during the first quarter that the student is in residence at Stanford after completion of the internship. May be repeated for credit and a total of 4 units accumulatively.  Prerequisite: Human Biology core.
HUMBIO198 | Senior Tutorial in Human Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO198 | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI); Darmstadt, G. (PI); Feldman, M. (PI); Fernald, A. (PI); Fisher, P. (PI); Preston, K. (PI); Stefanick, M. (PI); Wise, P. (PI) description:Reading for Human Biology majors in exceptional circumstances and under sponsorship of Human Biology associated faculty. Students must apply through Human Biology student services before registering. Reading list, paper, and evaluation required. May be repeated for credit.
HUMBIO199 | Directed Reading/Special Projects | http://HUMBIO199.stanford.edu | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI); Adam, M. (PI); Alles, W. (PI); Barr, D. (PI); Chu, J. (PI); Corso, I. (PI); Darmstadt, G. (PI); Durham, W. (PI); Feldman, H. (PI); Fernald, A. (PI); Fernald, R. (PI); Fisher, P. (PI); Friedlander, A. (PI); Fuller, M. (PI); Gardner, C. (PI); Gold, G. (PI); Gross, J. (PI); Heaney, C. (PI); Heller, H. (PI); Klein, R. (PI); Lyons, D. (PI); Magnus, D. (PI); Matheson, G. (PI); Medoff, L. (PI); Murray, A. (PI); O'hara, R. (PI); Preston, K. (PI); Sapolsky, R. (PI); Siegel, R. (PI); Smith, D. (PI); Stafford, R. (PI); Stefanick, M. (PI); Wine, J. (PI); Wise, P. (PI); Wolf, J. (PI) description:Human Biology majors must obtain a sponsor from the Human Biology associated faculty or the Academic Council. Non-majors and students who have not declared must obtain a sponsor only from the Human Biology associated faculty. Students must complete application in student services office.
HUMBIO200 | Teaching of Human Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO200 | instructors:Friedlander, A. (PI) description:For upper division undergraduates and graduate students. Practical experience in teaching Human Biology or serving as an assistant in a lecture course. May be repeated for credit.
HUMBIO26 | Designing Research-Based Interventions to Solve Global Health Problems (AFRICAST 135, AFRICAST 235, EDUC 135, EDUC 335, HRP 235, MED 235) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO26 | instructors:Sorcar, P. (PI) description:The excitement around social innovation and entrepreneurship has spawned numerous startups focused on tackling world problems, particularly in the fields of education and health. The best social ventures are launched with careful consideration paid to research, design, and efficacy. This course offers students insights into understanding how to effectively develop, evaluate, and scale social ventures. Using TeachAIDS (an award-winning nonprofit educational technology social venture used in 78 countries) as a primary case study, students will be given an in-depth look into how the entity was founded and scaled globally. Guest speakers will include world-class experts and entrepreneurs in Philanthropy, Medicine, Communications, Education, and Technology. Open to both undergraduate and graduate students.
HUMBIO27 | Traditional Chinese Medicine | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO27 | instructors:Golianu, B. (PI) description:The philosophy and history behind traditional Chinese medicine. Concepts such as Qi, Yin/Yang, meridians, Chinese organs, and the 5 elements. How these concepts are applied through techniques such as acupuncture, herbal medicine, Qi gong, and massage. How traditional Chinese medicine is understood from a scientific standpoint. Political and socioeconomic implications. Observation of an acupuncturist. Readings on the integration of Eastern and Western medicine and on traditional Chinese medicine.
HUMBIO28 | Health Impact of Sexual Assault and Relationship Abuse across the Lifecourse (AFRICAAM 28) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO28 | instructors:Alqueza, K. (PI); Stefanick, M. (PI) description:Cross-listed with SOMGEN 237 and FEMGEN 237. HumBio students must enroll in HumBio 28 or AFRICAAM 28.  An overview of the acute and chronic physical and psychological health impact of sexual abuse through the perspective of survivors of childhood, adolescent, young and middle adult, and elder abuse, including special populations such as pregnant women, military and veterans, prison inmates, individuals with mental or physical impairments. Also addresses: race/ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, and other demographic and societal factors, including issues specific to college culture. Professionals with expertise in sexual assault present behavioral and prevention efforts such as bystander intervention training, medical screening, counseling and other interventions to manage the emotional trauma of abuse. Undergraduates must enroll for 3 units. Medical and graduate students should enroll in SOMGEN 237 for 1-3 units. To receive a letter grade in any listing, students must enroll for 3 units.
HUMBIO29A | Well-Being in Immigrant Children & Youth: A Service Learning Course (CHILATST 177A, CSRE 177E, EDUC 177A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO29A | instructors:Padilla, A. (PI) description:This is an interdisciplinary course that will examine the dramatic demographic changes in American society that are challenging the institutions of our country, from health care and education to business and politics. This demographic transformation is occurring first in children and youth, and understanding how social institutions are responding to the needs of immigrant children and youth to support their well-being is the goal of this course.
HUMBIO2A | Genetics, Evolution, and Ecology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO2A | instructors:Durham, W. (PI); Preston, K. (PI); Talbot, W. (PI) description:Introduction to the principles of classical and modern genetics, evolutionary theory, and population biology. Topics: micro- and macro-evolution, population and molecular genetics, biodiversity, and ecology, emphasizing the genetics and ecology of the evolutionary process and applications to human populations. HUMBIO 2A and 2B are designed to be taken concurrently and exams for both sides may include material from joint module lectures. Concurrent enrollment is strongly encouraged and is necessary for majors in order to meet declaration deadlines.
HUMBIO2B | Culture, Evolution, and Society | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO2B | instructors:Klein, R. (PI); Scheidel, W. (PI) description:Introduction to the evolutionary study of human diversity. Hominid evolution, the origins of social complexity, social theory, and the emergence of the modern world system, emphasizing the concept of culture and its influence on human differences. HUMBIO 2A and 2B are designed to be taken concurrently and exams for both sides may include material from joint module lectures.  Concurrent enrollment is strongly encouraged and is necessary for majors in order to meet declaration deadlines.
HUMBIO3A | Cell and Developmental Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO3A | instructors:Fuller, M. (PI); Nusse, R. (PI); Talbot, W. (PI) description:The principles of the biology of cells: principles of human developmental biology, biochemistry of energetics and metabolism, the nature of membranes and organelles, hormone action and signal transduction in normal and diseased states (diabetes, cancer, autoimmune diseases), drug discovery, immunology, and drug addiction. HUMBIO 3A and 3B are designed to be taken concurrently and exams for both sides may include material from joint module lectures.  Concurrent enrollment is strongly encouraged and is necessary for majors in order to meet declaration deadlines. Prerequisite: college chemistry or completion of the HumBio Core on-line chemistry lecture series during the fall quarter.
HUMBIO3B | Behavior, Health, and Development | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO3B | instructors:Fernald, A. (PI); Lyons, D. (PI) description:Research and theory on human behavior, health, and life span development. How biological factors and cultural practices influence cognition, emotion, motivation, personality, and health in childhood, adolescence, and adulthood.  HUMBIO 3A and 3B are designed to be taken concurrently and exams for both sides may include material from joint module lectures.  Concurrent enrollment is strongly encouraged and is necessary for majors in order to meet declaration deadlines.
HUMBIO3Y | Practicum in Child Development | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO3Y | instructors:Mabry, M. (PI) description:Practicum experience at Bing Nursery School for 1 1/4 hours of observation per week, class meeting every other week for 1 hour. Pre- or corequisite: 3B.
HUMBIO4A | The Human Organism | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO4A | instructors:Fernald, R. (PI); Heller, H. (PI) description:Integrative Physiology: Neurobiology, endocrinology, and organ system function, control, and regulation. HUMBIO 4A and 4B are designed to be taken concurrently and exams for both sides may include material from joint module lectures.  Concurrent enrollment is strongly encouraged and is necessary for majors in order to meet declaration deadlines.
HUMBIO4B | Environmental and Health Policy Analysis | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO4B | instructors:Baker, L. (PI); Nation, J. (PI) description:Connections among the life sciences, social sciences, public health, and public policy. The economic, social, and institutional factors that underlie environmental degradation, the incidence of disease, and inequalities in health status and access to health care. Public policies to address these problems. Topics include pollution regulation, climate change policy, biodiversity protection, health care reform, health disparities, and women's health policy. HUMBIO 4A and 4B are designed to be taken concurrently and exams for both sides may include material from joint module lectures.  Concurrent enrollment is strongly encouraged and is necessary for majors in order to meet declaration deadlines.
HUMBIO57 | Epidemic Intelligence: How to Identify, Investigate and Interrupt Outbreaks of Disease | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO57 | instructors:Ley, C. (PI); Parsonnet, J. (PI) description:We will cover: the components of public health systems in the US; principles of outbreak investigation and disease surveillance;  different types of study design for field investigation; visualization and interpretation of public health data, including identification and prevention of biases; and implementation of disease control by public health authorities. Students will meet with leaders of health departments of the state and the county and will be responsible for devising and conducting their own investigation of a health problem.
HUMBIO5E | Science Education in Human Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO5E | instructors:Salmeen, A. (PI) description:In this seminar, students will become familiar with current research on science education. They will use this knowledge to create and analyze teaching material such as section plans, exams, and problem sets. Material produced in this course will be related to the topics covered in the core course of the Program in Human Biology. Students will experience and practice various teaching styles. Prerequisite: HumBio Core or equivalent.
HUMBIO74 | Ethics in a Human Life (PHIL 74A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO74 | instructors:Dannenberg, J. (PI) description:Ethical questions pervade a human life from before a person is conceived until after she dies, and at every point in between. This course raises a series of ethical questions, following along the path of a person's life - questions that arise before, during, and after she lives it.  We will explore distinctive questions that a life presents at each of several familiar stages: prior to birth, childhood, adulthood, death, and even beyond.  We will consider how some philosophers have tried to answer these questions, and we will think about how answering them might help us form a better understanding of the ethical shape of a human life as a whole.
HUMBIO79Q | Sexuality and Society | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO79Q | instructors:Medoff, L. (PI) description:This course will explore how sexual identity, attitudes, and behaviors are shaped by the messages sent by the various agents of society such as schools, family, peers, media, and religious, medical, and political institutions.  The interaction of biology, psychology, and socio-cultural factors, such as gender roles and sexual/relationship scripts will be discussed, as will the intersection of sexuality and notions of love, romance, and commitment.  Critical developmental periods, such as adolescence and emerging adulthood will be examined in depth.  Students will explore their own values and feelings about sexuality and come to an understanding of how their beliefs were formed.  We will discuss how information about sexuality is disseminated in our society and what we can do to help ensure that such information is used in a way that promotes healthy self-conceptions, behavior, and relationships.
HUMBIO82A | Qualitative Research Methodology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO82A | instructors:Wolf, J. (PI) description:Goal is to develop knowledge and skills for designing and conducting qualitative research studies including purposes, conceptual contexts, research questions, methods, validity issues, and interactions among these facets. Each student designs a qualitative research study.
HUMBIO82B | Advanced Data Analysis in Qualitative Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO82B | instructors:Wolf, J. (PI) description:For students writing up their own qualitative research. Students prepare a complete draft presenting their own qualitative research study including results, with reports drafted section by section, week by week. Class provides feedback, guidance, support.
HUMBIO85A | Essential Statistics for Human Biology (BIO 108) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO85A | instructors:Tuljapurkar, S. (PI) description:Introduction to statistical concepts and methods that are essential to the study of questions in biology, environment, health and related areas. The course will teach and use the computer language R and Python (you learn both, choose one). Topics include distributions, probabilities, likelihood, linear models; illustrations will be based on recent research.
HUMBIO86Q | Love as a Force for Social Justice (FEMGEN 86Q) | http://HUMBIO86Q.stanford.edu | instructors:Murray, A. (PI) description:Preference to sophomores. Biological, psychological, religious, social and cultural perspectives on the concept of agape love. How love is conceptualized across cultures; agape love as the basis of many religions; different kinds of love; the biology of love; love in action for social justice; the languages of love, including art, literature, music, and poetry. Emphasis is on blog writing, participation, and oral presentation.
HUMBIO88 | Introduction to Statistics for the Health Sciences | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO88 | instructors:Kurina, L. (PI) description:Students will learn the statistical tools used to describe and analyze data in the fields of medicine and epidemiology.  This very applied course will rely on current research questions and publicly available data.  Students will gain proficiency with Stata to do basic analyses of health-related data, including linear and logistic regression, and will become sophisticated consumers of health-related statistical results.
HUMBIO89 | Statistics in the Health Sciences | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO89 | instructors:Sainani, K. (PI); Wallach, J. (PI) description:This course aims to provide a firm grounding in the foundations of probability and statistics, with a focus on analyzing data from the health sciences. Students will learn how to read, interpret, and critically evaluate the statistics in medical and biological studies. The course also prepares students to be able to analyze their own data, guiding them on how to choose the correct statistical test, avoid common statistical pitfalls, and perform basic functions in R deducer.
HUMBIO9 | Public Service Internship Preparation (ARTSINST 40, EARTHSYS 9, EDUC 9, PUBLPOL 74, URBANST 101) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO9 | instructors:Berger, N. (PI); Chow, V. (PI); Douglas, H. (PI); Truebe, S. (PI) description:Are you prepared for your internship this summer? This workshop series will help you make the most of your internship experience by setting learning goals in advance; negotiating and communicating clear roles and expectations; preparing for a professional role in a non-profit, government, or community setting; and reflecting with successful interns and community partners on how to prepare sufficiently ahead of time. You will read, discuss, and hear from guest speakers, as well as develop a learning plan specific to your summer or academic year internship placement. This course is primarily designed for students who have already identified an internship for summer or a later quarter. You are welcome to attend any and all workshops, but must attend the entire series and do the assignments for 1 unit of credit.
HUMBIO91Q | Neuroethology: The Neural Control of Behavior (BIO 32Q) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO91Q | instructors:Fernald, R. (PI) description:Preference to sophomores. Animal behavior offers insights about evolutionary adaptations and this seminar will discuss the origins of the study of animal behavior and its development to the present. How does the nervous system control behavior and how is it changed by behavior?  We will analyze and discuss original research papers about the neural basis of behavior. The use and misuse of parallels between animal and human behavior. Possible field trip to observe animals in their natural habitat.
HUMBIO96Q | Injustice, Advocacy and Courage: The Path of Everyday Heroes | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO96Q | instructors:Abrams, W. (PI) description:This course will study the paradigms of people of courage, action and energy who have fought against injustice by advocating for causes against great odds and at personal risk.  The focus will be on everyday people who have taken action, often at great personal risk, not for ambition, but because of their convictions and steadfast commitment to their beliefs.
HUMBIO97Q | Sport, Exercise, and Health:  Exploring Sports Medicine (ORTHO 97Q) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HUMBIO97Q | instructors:Matheson, G. (PI) description:Preference to sophomores. Sports medicine is the practice of clinical medicine at the interface between health and performance, competition and well-being. While sports medicine had its origins in providing care to athletes, medical advances developed in care of athletes exerted a great effect on the nature and quality of care to the broader community. Topics include sports injuries, medical conditions associated with sport and exercise, ethics, coaching, women's issues, fitness and health, and sports science. Case studies.
