6.901 | Inventions and Patents | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-901-inventions-and-patents-fall-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Robert Rines term:Fall 2005 features:Faculty introduction - video, Online textbooks description:This course explores the history of private and public rights in scientific discoveries and applied engineering, leading to the development of worldwide patent systems. The classes of invention protectable under the patent laws of the U.S., including the procedures in protecting inventions in the Patent Office and the courts will be examined. A review of past cases involving inventions and patents in: the chemical process industry and medical pharmaceutical, biological, and genetic-engineering fields;devices in the mechanical, ocean exploration, civil, and/or aeronautical fields;the electrical, computer, software, and electronic areas, including key radio, solid-state, computer and software inventions; and alsosoftware protection afforded under copyright laws.Periodic joint real-time class sessions and discussions by video-audio Internet conferencing, with other universities will also be conducted.
15.615 | Law for the Entrepreneur and Manager | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-615-law-for-the-entrepreneur-and-manager-spring-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:John Akula term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course provides a basic understanding of legal issues that corporations face during their existence. The course starts by providing the basic building blocks of business law. We then follow a firm through its life cycle from its &quot;breakaway&quot; from an established firm through it going public. The materials covered during 15.647 (the first half of the semester) emphasize the organization and financing of the company. In the second half of the course we examine a broad array of law-sensitive issues relating to intellectual property, product development, M&amp;A transactions, international trade, the duties of directors and officers, business disputes, and bankruptcy and reorganization. The goal of the course is not to impart technical legal skills, but to enhance the judgment which students will bring to their responsibilities as entrepreneurs, managers in established companies, or consultants and advisors. There are two take-home exercises, and no exams. Students wishing to take only the first half of the Manager's Legal Function should register for 15.647, which meets only during the H1 period.
15.316 | Building and Leading Effective Teams | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-316-building-and-leading-effective-teams-summer-2005 | textbook:Senge, Peter M., Art Kleiner, Charlotte Roberts, Rick Ross, and Bryan Smith. "The Ladder of Inference." In The Fifth Discipline Fieldbook. New York, NY: Currency Publishers, pp. 242-250. textbook:Senge, Peter. The Fifth Discipline. New York, NY: Doubleday and Co., 1994, pp. 200-201. level:Graduate instructors:John Carroll term:Summer 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is an intensive one-week introduction to leadership, teams, and learning communities. The class meets daily for&nbsp;five days. The class serves as an introduction of concepts and uses a variety of experiential exercises to develop individual and team skills, as well as supportive relationships within the Leaders for Manufacturing class.&nbsp;As part of the focus on leadership, it discusses the idea of the "Universe Within", the images, thoughts, and experiences that are internal to all leaders.
15.317 | Organizational Leadership and Change | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-317-organizational-leadership-and-change-summer-2009 | level:Graduate instructors:Janice Klein term:Summer 2009 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:15.317 Organizational Leadership and Change focuses on practical experience that blends theory and practice. Students reflect on prior leadership experiences and then apply lessons learned to further develop their leadership capabilities. The course requires active participation in all leadership classes and/or activities as well as short deliverables throughout the program.
15.351 | Managing Innovation and Entrepreneurship | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-351-managing-innovation-and-entrepreneurship-spring-2008 | textbook:Foster, R. "The S Curve: A New Forecasting Tool." Chapter 4 in Innovation: The Attacker's Advantage. New York, NY: Summit Books, 1986. textbook:Christensen, Clayton. The Innovator's Dilemma. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1997. textbook:Bennis, Warren G., and Patricia Biederman. "The End of the Great Man." Chapter 1 in Organizing Genius. New York, NY: Perseus Books, 1997. textbook:Christensen, C., and M. Raynor. "Managing the Strategy Development Process." Chapter 8 in The Innovator's Solution. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 2003. textbook:Teece, D. "Capturing Value from Technological Innovation: Integration, Strategic Partnering, and Licensing Decisions." In Managing Strategic Innovation and Change. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1996, pp. 287-306. textbook:Gawer, A., and M. Cusumano. Platform Leadership: How Intel, Microsoft, and Cisco Drive Industry Innovation. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 2002. textbook:Chesbrough, Henry. "Open Innovation at Intel." Chapter 6 in Open Innovation: The New Imperative for Creating and Profiting from Technology. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 2005, pp. 113-134. textbook:Uttal, B. "The Lab That Ran Away from Xerox." Fortune, 1983. Reprinted in Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation. Edited by R. A. Burgelman, C. M. Christensen, and S. C. Wheelwright. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Fiona Murray term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course discusses the basics every manager needs to organize successful technology-driven innovation in both entrepreneurial and established firms. We start by examining innovation-based strategies as a source of competitive advantage and then examine how to build organizations that excel at identifying, building and commercializing technological innovations. Major topics include how the innovation process works; creating an organizational environment that rewards innovation and entrepreneurship; designing appropriate innovation processes (e.g. stage-gate, portfolio management); organizing to take advantage of internal and external sources of innovation; and structuring entrepreneurial and established organizations for effective innovation. The course examines how entrepreneurs can shape their firms so that they continuously build and commercialize valuable innovations. Many of the examples also focus on how established firms can become more entrepreneurial in their approach to innovation.
15.351 | Managing the Innovation Process | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-351-managing-the-innovation-process-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Jonathon Cummings term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course approaches "managing the innovation process" through five levels of analysis: individual, team, network, organizational, and industrial. At each level of analysis, particular attention is given to the conditions under which innovation processes succeed and fail. The weekly readings consist of a mixture of book chapters, journal articles, and cases, and an online forum will be used for further discussion of the required readings outside of class. Tuesday classes will begin with a reflection exercise that entails critical thinking about the topic for the week, followed by an activity and lecture introducing material found both within and outside of the readings. Thursday classes will begin with a case analysis completed in small groups, followed by a discussion based on the issues raised in the case and online forum. The primary goal of the course is to expose students to a variety of perspectives on innovation, while building on past work experiences and preparing for work experiences in the future.
15.352 | Managing Innovation: Emerging Trends | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-352-managing-innovation-emerging-trends-spring-2005 | textbook:von Hippel, Eric. Democratizing Innovation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Eric von Hippel term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:Important emerging trends in innovation are identified, and their implications for innovation management are explored. Major topics to be discussed include the trend to open information (&quot;open source&quot;) rather than protected intellectual property; the distribution of innovation over many independent but collaborating actors; and toolkits that empower users to innovate for themselves.
15.356 | How to Develop Breakthrough Products and Services | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-356-how-to-develop-breakthrough-products-and-services-spring-2012 | textbook:von Hippel, Eric. Chapter 10 in Democratizing Innovation. MIT Press, 2005. textbook:von Hippel, Eric. Chapters 7 in Democratizing Innovation. MIT Press, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Eric von Hippel term:Spring 2012 features:Selected video lectures, Selected lecture notes description:Firms must develop major innovations to prosper, but they don't know how to. However, recent research into the innovation process has made it possible to develop breakthroughs systematically. 15.356 How to Develop Breakthrough Products and Services explores several practical idea generation development methods. To convey the art required to implement each of these methodologies, experts are invited to present real cases to the class.
15.356 | How to Develop "Breakthrough" Products and Services | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-356-how-to-develop-breakthrough-products-and-services-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Eric von Hippel term:Spring 2004 features:Selected video lectures, Selected lecture notes description:To prosper, firms must develop major product and service innovations. Often, though, they don't know how. Recent research into the innovation process has made it possible to develop "breakthroughs" systematically. 15.356 presents several practical concept development methods, such as the "Lead User Method," where manufacturers learn from innovative customers. Expert guest speakers present case studies that show the "art" required to implement a concept development method. 15.356 is a half-term subject.
15.358 | The Software Business | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-358-the-software-business-fall-2005 | textbook:Cusumano, Michael A. The Business of Software: What Every Manager, Programmer, and Entrepreneur Must Know in Good Times and Bad. New York, NY: Free Press, 2004. textbook:Cusumano, Michael A., and Richard W. Selby. Microsoft® Secrets. New York, NY: Free Press, 1998. textbook:Moore, Geoffrey. Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream Customers. Revised ed. New York, NY: HarperBusiness, 1999. textbook:Campbell-Kelly, Martin. A History of the Software Industry: From Airline Reservations to Sonic the Hedgehog. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. textbook:McConnell, Steve. Rapid Development. Redmond, WA: Microsoft Press, 1996. textbook:Moody, Glyn. Rebel Code: Inside Linux® and the Open Source Revolution. Cambridge, MA: Perseus Publication, 2001. textbook:Nesheim, John. High-Tech Start Up. New York, NY: Free Press, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Michael Cusumano term:Fall 2005 features: description:This subject is a seminar-style course aimed at anyone who is interested in founding a software company or working for a software company or company that uses software technology extensively as a senior manager, developer, or product/program manager. It is also appropriate for people interested in the industry or in working as an industry analyst. Many of the issues we discuss are highly relevant for companies whose businesses are heavily dependent on software, such as in e-business or financial services, or embedded software for industrial applications.
15.369 | Corporate Entrepreneurship: Strategies for Technology-Based New Business Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-369-corporate-entrepreneurship-strategies-for-technology-based-new-business-development-fall-2007 | 
15.387 | Entrepreneurial Sales | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-387-entrepreneurial-sales-spring-2015 | level:Graduate instructors:Lou Shipley,  Kirk Arnold,  Dennis Hoffman term:Spring 2015 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course outlines the practical and tactical ins and outs of how to sell technical products to a sophisticated marketplace. How to build and manage a sales force; building compensation systems for a sales force, assigning territories, resolving disputes, and dealing with channel conflicts. Focus on selling to customers, whether through a direct salesforce, a channel salesforce, or building an OEM relationship.
15.389A | Global Entrepreneurship Lab: Asia-Pacific | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-389a-global-entrepreneurship-lab-asia-pacific-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Yasheng Huang,  Simon Johnson,  Michellana Jester term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:15.389A Global Entrepreneurship Lab: Asia-Pacific enables teams of students to work with the top management of global start-ups and gain experience in running, and consulting to, a new enterprise outside the United States. The focus is on start-ups operating in emerging markets throughout the world, with a special focus on the Asia-Pacific region. The course combines an internship in a growing firm with in-class discussions of the issues and policies that affect the climate for innovation and start-up success around the world.
15.389B | Global Entrepreneurship Lab: Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-389b-global-entrepreneurship-lab-latin-america-the-middle-east-and-africa-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Simon Johnson,  Yasheng Huang,  Michellana Jester term:Fall 2010 features:Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:15.389B Global Entrepreneurship Lab: Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa enables teams of students to work with the top management of global start-ups and gain experience in running, and consulting to, a new enterprise outside the United States. The focus is on start-ups operating in emerging markets throughout the world, with a special focus on Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. The course combines an internship in a growing firm with in-class discussions of the issues and policies that affect the climate for innovation and start-up success around the world.
15.390 | New Enterprises | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-390-new-enterprises-spring-2013 | textbook:[Aulet] =  Aulet, Bill. Disciplined Entrepreneurship: 24 Steps to a Successful Startup. Wiley, 2013. textbook:Halligan, Brian, and Dharmesh Shah. Foreword and chapters 1–2 in Inbound Marketing: Get Found Using Google, Social media, and Blogs. Wiley, 2009. level:Graduate instructors:William Aulet,  Howard Anderson,  Matt Marx term:Spring 2013 features:Subtitles/transcript, Tutorial - video, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course covers the process of identifying and quantifying market opportunities, then conceptualizing, planning, and starting a new, technology-based enterprise. Students develop detailed business plans for a startup. It is intended for students who want to start their own business, further develop an existing business, be a member of a management team in a new enterprise, or better understand the entrepreneur and the entrepreneurial process.&nbsp;
15.391 | Early Stage Capital | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-391-early-stage-capital-fall-2010 | textbook:Bussgang, Jeffrey. "Inside the VC Club: the 1,000 Deciders." Chapter 2 in Mastering the VC Game. New York, NY: Penguin Group, 2010. level:Graduate instructors:Shari Loessberg term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:If you are an entrepreneur, one of your priorities, in addition to building your company, is ensuring you have enough money at the right times. Early Stage Capital will consider a broad range of questions that entrepreneurs deal with on this front, including the following: What should your strategy and your priorities be in raising early stage capital? What are the market norms and standards in structuring VC deals? What are the critical negotiating strategies and tactics? How will your company be valued? How can you obtain the optimal valuation for your new venture? What are the critical elements in the relationship between venture capitalists and entrepreneurs? How is the &quot;venture model&quot; evolving? Is it broken? What is the impact of Super Angels and micro VCs? These are key questions that face all entrepreneurs in 2010, particularly first-time entrepreneurs. This course aims to prepare you for these decisions, as either a potential entrepreneur or venture capitalist. Using live interactions with leading figures in the venture finance community, most of the class sessions will analyze fundamental strategies of the venture-capital investment process and the critical importance of the relationship between entrepreneur and investor. As well, we will have a tactical focus on demystifying the legalities and jargon of the term sheet and the &quot;A round&quot; financing process. Significantly for 2010, we will also frequently consider the rapid and arguably fundamental change in VC today as the &quot;lean startup&quot; model threatens much of the traditional role and value of the venture investor. Disclaimer: The websites for this course and the materials they offer are provided for educational use only.  They are not a substitute for the advice of an attorney and no attorney-client relationship is created by using them. All materials are provided &quot;as-is&quot;, without any express or implied warranties.
15.394 | Designing and Leading the Entrepreneurial Organization | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-394-designing-and-leading-the-entrepreneurial-organization-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Diane Burton term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes description:This subject is about building, running, and growing an organization. Subject has four central themes:  How to think analytically about designing organizational systems How leaders, especially founders, play a critical role in shaping an organization's culture What really needs to be done to build a successful organization for the long-term and What one can do to improve the likelihood of personal success.  Not a survey of entrepreneurship or leadership; subject addresses the principles of organizational architecture, group behavior and performance, interpersonal influence, leadership and motivation in entrepreneurial settings. Through a series of cases, lectures, readings and exercises students develop competencies in organizational design, human resources management, leadership and organizational behavior in the context of a new, small firm.
15.431 | Entrepreneurial Finance | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-431-entrepreneurial-finance-spring-2011 | level:Graduate instructors:Antoinette Schoar term:Spring 2011 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:15.431 Entrepreneurial Finance examines the elements of entrepreneurial finance, focusing on technology-based start-up ventures and the early stages of company development. The course addresses key questions which challenge all entrepreneurs: how much money can and should be raised; when should it be raised and from whom; what is a reasonable valuation of the company; and how should funding, employment contracts and exit decisions be structured. It aims to prepare students for these decisions, both as entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. In addition, the course includes an in-depth analysis of the structure of the private equity industry.
15.783J | Product Design and Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-783j-product-design-and-development-spring-2006 | textbook:Ulrich, Karl, and Steven Eppinger. Product Design and Development. 3rd ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Matthew Kressy,  Steven Eppinger,  Thomas Roemer,  Warren Seering term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples description:Product Design and Development is a project-based course that covers modern tools and methods for product design and development. The cornerstone is a project in which teams of management, engineering, and industrial design students conceive, design and prototype a physical product. Class sessions are conducted in workshop mode and employ cases and hands-on exercises to reinforce the key ideas. Topics include identifying customer needs, concept generation, product architecture, industrial design, and design-for-manufacturing.
15.818 | Pricing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-818-pricing-spring-2010 | textbook:Nagle, Thomas T., and John Hogan. The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing. 4th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Catherine Tucker term:Spring 2010 features:Lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This course is designed to teach students how to price goods and services by providing a framework for understanding pricing strategies and tactics. Topics covered include economic value analysis, price elasticities, price customization, pricing complementary products, pricing in platform markets and anticipating competitive price responses.
15.821 | Listening to the Customer | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-821-listening-to-the-customer-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Drazen Prelec term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:The 15.821 and 15.822 SequenceMarketing research may be divided into methods that emphasize understanding "the customer" and methods that emphasize understanding "the market." This course (15.821) deals with the customer and emphasizes qualitative methods (interviews, focus groups, Voice of the Customer, composing questions for a survey). The companion course (15.822) deals with the market and emphasizes quantitative methods (sampling, survey execution, quantitative data interpretation, conjoint analysis, factor analysis).The methods covered in 15.821 are often used in the "front-end" of market research project, whose second-stage is a quantitative survey. The quality of information gathered in the second-stage is greatly enhanced in this way.15.821 is designed for the nonspecialist, e.g., someone planning a career in general management, product or project management, R&amp;D, advertising, or entrepreneurship. 15.822 teaches analytical techniques that are standard in consulting or marketing research, and is ideally suited for students planning careers in those fields.
15.835 | Entrepreneurial Marketing | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-835-entrepreneurial-marketing-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Jin Gyo Kim term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course clarifies key marketing concepts, methods, and strategic issues relevant for start-up and early-stage entrepreneurs. At this course, there are two major questions:Marketing Question: What and how am I selling to whom?New Venture Question: How do I best leverage my limited marketing recourses?Specifically, this course is designed to give students a broad and deep understanding of such topics as:What are major strategic constraints and issues confronted by entrepreneurs today?How can one identify and evaluate marketing opportunities?How do entrepreneurs achieve competitive advantages given limited marketing resources?What major marketing/sales tools are most useful in an entrepreneurial setting?Because there is no universal marketing solution applicable to all entrepreneurial ventures, this course is designed to help students develop a flexible way of thinking about marketing problems in general.
15.912 | Technology Strategy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-912-technology-strategy-fall-2008 | textbook:Foster, R. "The S-curve: A New Forecasting Tool." Chapter 4 in Innovation, The Attacker's Advantage. New York, NY: Summit Books, Simon and Schuster, 1986, pp. 88-111. textbook:Utterback, James. "Invasion of a Stable Business by Radical Innovation." Chapter 7 in Mastering the Dynamics of Innovation. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1994. textbook:Moore, G. Crossing the Chasm. Revised ed. New York, NY: Harper Collins, 1999. (Read chapter 1 "High-Tech Marketing Illusion," and chapter 2 "High-Tech Marketing Enlightenment," pp. 9-62.) textbook:Tushman, Michael, and Wendy Smith. "Technological Change, Ambidextrous Organizations and Organizational Evolution." In Companion to Organizations. Edited by J. Baum. Malden, MA: Wiley-Blackwell, 2002. textbook:Brandenburger, Adam, and Barry Nalebuff. Co-Opetition. New York, NY: Broadway Business, 1997. (Read chapter 1 "War and Peace," chapter 2 "Co-Opetition," and chapter 5 "Added Value," pp. 3-39 and 110-158.) level:Graduate instructors:Jason Davis term:Fall 2008 features:Lecture notes description:This course provides a series of strategic frameworks for managing high-technology businesses. The emphasis throughout the course is on the development and application of conceptual models which clarify the interactions between competition, patterns of technological and market change, and the structure and development of organizational capabilities.This is not a course in how to manage product or process development. The main focus is on the acquisition of a set of powerful analytical tools which are critical for the development of a technology strategy as an integral part of business strategy. These tools can provide the framework for deciding which technologies to invest in, how to structure those investments and how to anticipate and respond to the behavior of competitors, suppliers, and customers. The course should be of particular interest to those interested in managing a business for which technology is likely to play a major role, and to those interested in consulting or venture capital.
15.S21 | Nuts and Bolts of Business Plans | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-s21-nuts-and-bolts-of-business-plans-january-iap-2014 | textbook:Tiffany, Paul, and Steven Peterson. Chapters 10 and 11, "Figuring Out Financials" and "Forecasting and Budgeting." In Business Plans for Dummies. For Dummies, 1997. level:Graduate instructors:Joseph Hadzima term:January IAP 2014 features:Video lectures, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:The nuts and bolts of preparing a New Venture Plan and launching the venture will be explored in this twenty-fifth&nbsp;annual course offering. The course is open to members of the MIT Community and to others interested in entrepreneurship. It is particularly recommended for persons who are interested in starting or are involved in a new business or venture. Because some of the speakers will be judges of the MIT $100K Entrepreneurship Competition, persons who are planning to enter the Competition should find the course particularly useful. In the past approximately 50% of the class has been from the Engineering / Science / Architecture Schools and 50% from the Sloan School of Management.The course is offered during the Independent Activities Period (IAP), which is a special 4-week term at MIT that runs from the first week of January until the end of the month.
MAS.666 | Developmental Entrepreneurship | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/media-arts-and-sciences/mas-666-developmental-entrepreneurship-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Alex Pentland term:Fall 2003 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This class surveys developmental entrepreneurship via case examples of both successful and failed businesses and generally grapples with deploying and diffusing products and services through entrepreneurial action. By drawing on live and historical cases, especially from South Asia, Africa, Latin America as well as Eastern Europe, China, and other developing regions, we seek to cover the broad spectrum of challenges and opportunities facing developmental entrepreneurs. Finally, we explore a range of established and emerging business models as well as new business opportunities enabled by developmental technologies developed in MIT labs and beyond.
11.011 | The Art and Science of Negotiation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/urban-studies-and-planning/11-011-the-art-and-science-of-negotiation-spring-2006 | textbook:Fisher, Roger, W. William Ury, and Bruce Patton. Getting to Yes. 2nd ed. New York, NY: Penguin, 1991. level:Undergraduate instructors:David Laws term:Spring 2006 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:This course provides an introduction to bargaining and negotiation in public, business, and legal settings. It combines a "hands-on" skill-building orientation with a look at pertinent social theory. Strategy, communications, ethics, and institutional influences are examined as they influence the ability of actors to analyze problems, negotiate agreements, and resolve disputes in social, organizational, and political circumstances characterized by interdependent interests.
15.301 | Managerial Psychology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-301-managerial-psychology-fall-2006 | textbook:Greenberg, Jerald. Managing Behavior in Organizations. 4th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2004. textbook:Cialdini, Robert B. Influence: Science and Practice. 4th ed. Boston, MA: Allyn and Bacon, 2000. textbook:Bowditch, J. L., and A. F. Buono. A Primer on Organizational Behavior. 5th ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 2001. textbook:Van Maanen, J. "The Smile Factory: Work at Disneyland." In Reframing Organizational Culture. Edited by Peter Frost, et al. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1989, pp. 58-76. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:John Carroll,  Li Tao term:Fall 2006 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces you to behavioral science theories, methods, and tools and provides opportunities to use and apply them to problems you will encounter in your work and career. The course material will begin with an overview of work and organizations in modern industrial society, and then examine individual behavior, move to behavior in groups or teams, and finally discuss organizations as a whole. It is expected that at the end of the course you will: (a) know something about managerial psychology, (b) know how to learn more, (c) understand the behavioral research process, and (d) develop skills in presenting your ideas in oral and written reports.
15.628J | Patents, Copyrights, and the Law of Intellectual Property | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-628j-patents-copyrights-and-the-law-of-intellectual-property-spring-2013 | textbook:Bagley, and Dauchy. Chapter 14 in The Entrepreneur's Guide to Business Law. Cengage Learning, 2011, pp. 529–42. textbook:Bagley, and Dauchy. Chapter 14 in The Entrepreneur's Guide to Business Law. Cengage Learning, 2011, pp. 518–29. textbook:Bagley, and Dauchy. Chapter 14 in The Entrepreneur's Guide to Business Law. Cengage Learning, 2011, pp. 558–69. level:Undergraduate instructors: term:Spring 2013 features: description:This course is an intensive introduction to the U.S. law of intellectual property with major emphasis on patents, including what can be patented, the process of patent application, and the remedies for patent infringement.
15.772J | D-Lab: Supply Chains | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-772j-d-lab-supply-chains-fall-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Stephen Graves term:Fall 2014 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces concepts of supply chain design and operations with a focus on supply chains for products destined to improve quality of life in developing countries. Topics include demand estimation, capacity planning and process analysis, inventory management, and supply chain coordination and performance. We also cover issues specific to emerging markets, such as sustainable supply chains, how to couple product design with supply chain design and operation, and how to account for the value-adding role of a supply chain. A major aspect of class is the student projects on supply chain design or improvement.
EC.701J | D-Lab I: Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/edgerton-center/ec-701j-d-lab-i-development-fall-2009 | textbook:[Smillie] =  Smillie, Ian. Mastering the Machine Revisited: Poverty, Aid and Technology. Practical Action, 2000. textbook:Schumacher, E. F. "Social and Economic Problems Calling for the Development of Intermediate Technology." Part III, chapter 2 in Small Is Beautiful: Economics as if People Mattered. Harper Perennial, 1989, pp. 181-201. textbook:———. "Rural Development and Economic Stabilization: Can They Be Attained Simultaneously?" Chapter 9 in Africa's Agrarian Crisis: The Roots of Famine. Edited by S. K. Commins, et al. Lynne Rienner Publishers, 1986. textbook:Polak, P. "The Three Great Poverty Eradication Myths." Chapter 2 in Out of Poverty. Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2008, pp. 27-48. level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Amy J. Smith,  Bishwapriya Sanyal,  Victor Grau Serrat term:Fall 2009 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:D-Lab Development addresses issues of technological improvements at the micro level for developing countries&mdash;in particular, how the quality of life of low-income households can be improved by adaptation of low cost and sustainable technologies. Discussion of development issues as well as project implementation challenges are addressed through lectures, case studies, guest speakers and laboratory exercises. Students form project teams to partner with mostly local level organizations in developing countries, and formulate plans for an IAP site visit. (Previous field sites include Ghana, Brazil, Honduras and India.) Project team meetings focus on developing specific projects and include cultural, social, political, environmental and economic overviews of the countries and localities to be visited as well as an introduction to the local languages.
EC.720J | D-Lab II: Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/edgerton-center/ec-720j-d-lab-ii-design-spring-2010 | textbook:[Polak] =  Polak, Paul. Out of Poverty. Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2008. textbook:Hotchkiss, R. Independence through Mobility (PDF - 1.6MB). Edited by Lindi Ramsden. Appropriate Technology International, 1985. textbook:Allen, H. The Kenya Ceramic Jiko. Practical Action, 1991. textbook:McDonough, William, and Michael Braungart. Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things. North Point Press, 2002. textbook:Prahaland, C. K. The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid: Eradicating Poverty Through Profits. 5th ed. Wharton School Publishing, 2009. textbook:Schumacher, E. F. Small Is Beautiful: Economics as if People Mattered. Reprint, with new forward by Bill McKibben. HarperCollins, 2010. textbook:Weisman, Alan. Gaviotas: A Village to Reinvent the World. 10th anniversary ed. Chelsea Green Publishing, 2008. level:Undergraduate instructors:Amy J. Smith,  Victor Grau Serrat term:Spring 2010 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:D-Lab: Design addresses problems faced by undeserved communities with a focus on design, experimentation, and prototyping processes. Particular attention is placed on constraints faced when designing for developing countries. Multidisciplinary teams work on semester-long projects in collaboration with community partners, field practitioners, and experts in relevant fields. Topics covered include design for affordability, design for manufacture, sustainability, and strategies for working effectively with community partners and customers. Students may continue projects begun in EC.701J D-Lab I: Development.
6.931 | Development of Inventions and Creative Ideas | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-931-development-of-inventions-and-creative-ideas-spring-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Dedric Carter, Dr. Robert Rines term:Spring 2008 features:Online textbooks, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course examines the role of the engineer as patent expert and as technical witness in court and patent interference and related proceedings. It discusses the rights and obligations of engineers in connection with educational institutions, government, and large and small businesses. It compares various manners of transplanting inventions into business operations, including development of New England and other U.S. electronics and biotechnology industries and their different types of institutions. The course also considers American systems of incentive to creativity apart from the patent laws in the atomic energy and space fields.AcknowledgmentThe instructors would like to thank Joanne Rines and Elijah Ercolino for their efforts in preparing this course.
15.010 | Economic Analysis for Business Decisions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-010-economic-analysis-for-business-decisions-fall-2004 | textbook:The readings in the table below are from the textbook:  Pindyck, Robert S., and Daniel L. Rubinfeld. Microeconomics. 5th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 27 July 2000. level:Graduate instructors:Ernst Berndt,  Joseph Doyle,  Michael Chapman,  Thomas Stoker term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments and solutions, Exams and solutions description:15.010 is the Sloan School's core subject in microeconomics, with sections for non-Sloan students labeled 15.011. Our objective is to give you a working knowledge of the analytical tools that bear most directly on the economic decisions firms must regularly make. We will emphasize market structure and industrial performance, including the strategic interaction of firms. We will examine the behavior of individual markets -- and the producers and consumers that sell and buy in those markets -- in some detail, focusing on cost analysis, the determinants of market demand, pricing strategy, market power, and the implications of government regulatory policies. We will also examine the implications of economics on other business practices, such as incentive plans, auctions, and transfer pricing.
15.020 | Competition in Telecommunications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-020-competition-in-telecommunications-fall-2003 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Jerry Hausman term:Fall 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:Competition in Telecommunications provides an introduction to the economics, business strategies, and technology of telecommunications markets.&nbsp;This includes markets for wireless communications, local and long-distance services, and customer equipment. The convergence of computers, cable TV and telecommunications and the competitive emergence of the Internet are covered in depth. A number of speakers from leading companies in the industry will give course lectures.
15.024 | Applied Economics for Managers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-024-applied-economics-for-managers-summer-2004 | textbook:The reading is primarily from the course textbook, referred to in the table below as "Parkin":  Parkin, Michael. Microeconomics. 6th ed. Sydney: Addison-Wesley Publishing, 2004. level:Graduate instructors:Daniel Richards term:Summer 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) description:The fact of scarcity forces individuals, firms, and societies to choose among alternative uses &#8211; or allocations &#8211; of its limited resources. Accordingly, the first part of this summer course seeks to understand how economists model the choice process of individual consumers and firms, and how markets work to coordinate these choices. It also examines how well markets perform this function using the economist's criterion of market efficiency.Overall, this course focuses on microeconomics, with some topics from macroeconomics and international trade. It emphasizes the integration of theory, data, and judgment in the analysis of corporate decisions and public policy, and in the assessment of changing U.S. and international business environments.
15.063 | Communicating With Data | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-063-communicating-with-data-summer-2003 | textbook:Bertsimas, Dimitris, and Robert M. Freund. Data, Models, and Decisions: The Fundamentals of Management Science. Southwestern College Publishing, 2000. level:Graduate instructors:John Carroll term:Summer 2003 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments and solutions description:Communicating With Data has a distinctive structure and content, combining fundamental quantitative techniques of using data to make informed management decisions with illustrations of how real decision makers, even highly trained professionals, fall prey to errors and biases in their understanding. We present the fundamental concepts underlying the quantitative techniques as a way of thinking, not just a way of calculating, in order to enhance decision-making skills.&nbsp;Rather than survey all of the techniques of management science, we stress those fundamental concepts and tools that we believe are most important for the practical analysis of management decisions, presenting the material as much as possible in the context of realistic business situations from a variety of settings. Exercises and examples drawn from marketing, finance, operations management, strategy, and other management functions.
15.277 | Special Seminar in Communications: Leadership and Personal Effectiveness Coaching | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-277-special-seminar-in-communications-leadership-and-personal-effectiveness-coaching-fall-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:Christine Kelly term:Fall 2008 features: description:This course builds on the work done concurrently in 15.280 Communication for Managers and 15.311 Organizational Processes in the first semester of the MBA program. 15.280 is offered for 6 units and 15.277 provides an additional 3 units for a total of 9 units in Managerial Communication. 15.277 acts as a lab component to 15.280 and provides students additional opportunities to hone their communication skills through a variety of in-class exercises. Emphasis is on both individual and team communication.
15.280 | Communication for Managers | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-280-communication-for-managers-fall-2008 | textbook:Munter, Mary. Guide to Managerial Communication. 7th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2005. textbook:Mead, Richard. "Intercultural Business Communication: An Example." From Cross Cultural Management Communication. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1992. level:Graduate instructors:Neal Hartman term:Fall 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Writing and speaking skills necessary for a career in management. Students polish communication strategies and methods through discussion, examples, and practice. Several written and oral assignments, most based on material from other subjects and from career development activities. Schedule and curriculum coordinated with 15.311 Organizational Processes class. Restricted to first-year Sloan School of Management graduate students.Students may also enroll in 15.277 Special Seminar in Communication: Leadership and Personal Effectiveness Coaching. 15.280 is offered for 6 units and 15.277 provides an additional 3 units for a total of 9 units in Managerial Communication. 15.277 acts as a lab component to 15.280 and provides students additional opportunities to hone their communication skills through a variety of in-class exercises.
15.281 | Advanced Managerial Communication | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-281-advanced-managerial-communication-spring-2009 | textbook:Hattersley, Michael, and Linda J. McJannet. "Giving and Receiving Feedback." In Management Communication: Principles and Practice. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1996, pp. 143-148. textbook:Munter, Mary. "Consult/Join Meetings." In Guide to Managerial Communication: Effective Business Writing and Speaking. 5th ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1999, pp. 95-101. textbook:Ancona, Deborah, et al. "Team Decision Making." In Managing for the Future: Organizational Behavior and Processes. 3rd ed. Cincinnati, OH: South-Western College Pub, 2004, pp. 16-24. textbook:Schein, Edgar. "The Process of Building and Maintaining a Group." Chapter 4 in Process Consultation. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1988. textbook:Ancona, Deborah, et al. "Team Decision Making." In Managing for the Future: Organizational Behavior and Processes. 3rd ed. Cincinnati, OH: South-Western College Pub, 2004, pp. 16-24. level:Graduate instructors:Neal Hartman term:Spring 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:This course builds on managerial communication skills developed in (15.279) Management Communication for Undergraduates or (15.280) Communication for Managers. It introduces interactive oral and interpersonal communication skills important to managers, including presenting to a hostile audience, running meetings, listening, and contributing to group decision-making. Working in teams, students present a communication topic of their choosing to the class. An individual project challenges students to address a business audience in written and oral forms.
15.311 | Organizational Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-311-organizational-processes-fall-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:John Van Maanen,  Paul Carlile,  Roberto Fernandez term:Fall 2003 features: description:Organizational Processes enhances students' ability to take effective action in complex organizational settings by providing the analytic tools needed to analyze, manage, and lead the organizations of the future. Emphasis is placed on the importance of the organizational context in influencing which individual styles and skills are effective.&nbsp;The subject centers on three complementary perspectives, or &quot;lenses&quot;, on an organization: political, cultural, and strategic design. Students enrolled in this class are also jointly enrolled in 15.328, Team Project, in order to complete a field study of an&nbsp;organizational change initiative. Organizational Processes also operates in conjunction with 15.280, Communication for Managers, by sharing certain assignments and holding some joint classes.
15.511 | Financial Accounting | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-511-financial-accounting-summer-2004 | textbook:The chapters are drawn from this text:  Stickney, Clyde P., and Roman L. Weil. Financial Accounting: An Introduction to Concepts, Methods, and Uses. 10th ed. Thomson South-Western, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:S. P. Kothari term:Summer 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions description:This six-week summer course teaches basic concepts of corporate financial accounting and reporting. This information is widely used in making investment decisions, corporate and managerial performance assessment, and valuation of firms.&#160;Students perform economics-based analysis of accounting information from the viewpoint of the users of accounting information (especially senior managers) rather than the preparer (the accountant). This course is restricted to MIT Sloan Fellows in Innovation and Global Leadership.
15.616 | Innovative Businesses and Breakthrough Technologies - The Legal Issues | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-616-innovative-businesses-and-breakthrough-technologies-the-legal-issues-fall-2004 | textbook:The course textbook is: Bagley, Constance E., and Craig E. Dauchy. The Entrepreneur's Guide to Business Law. 2nd ed. Mason, OH: South-Western College Publishing, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:John Akula<br/>Senior Lecturer in Law term:Fall 2004 features: description:15.616 is an introduction to business law which covers the fundamentals, including contracts, liability, regulation, employment, and corporations, with an in-depth treatment of the legal issues relating to breakthrough technologies, including the legal framework of R&amp;D, the commercialization of new high-technology products in start-ups and mature companies, and the liability and regulatory implications of new products and innovative business models. There is extensive attention to national and international intellectual property protection and strategies. Examples are drawn from many industries, including information technology, communications, and life sciences.Note: This course used to be numbered 15.648.
15.649 | The Law of Mergers and Acquisitions | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-649-the-law-of-mergers-and-acquisitions-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:John Akula<br/>Senior Lecturer in Law term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course is designed to give students an introduction to the law-sensitive aspects of Mergers &amp; Acquisitions (M&amp;A). In Module I, we examine the legal implications of key roles and deal structures, and walk through some of the issues that would typically arise in a simple and friendly transaction. We also give a class to the legal issues arising in LBOs and the legal concerns of financial sponsors more generally, and another class to employment-related issues, including those relating to managers facing unsettled circumstances. In Module II, we look at a variety of complications, including those that arise in the friendly or unfriendly purchase of a publicly-held company; deals involving distressed and hi-tech companies; antitrust concerns; allegations of misconduct by management or board members; and deals involving non-U.S. companies.
15.665 | Power and Negotiation | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-665-power-and-negotiation-spring-2014 | textbook:[FR] =  Fisher, Roger, William Ury, and Bruce Patton. Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement Without Giving In. Penguin Books, 1991. textbook:[DS] =  Fisher, Roger, and Daniel Shapiro. Beyond Reason: Using Emotions as You Negotiate. Penguin Books, 2006. textbook:[LR] =  Lewicki, Roy J., et al. Essentials of Negotiation. 3rd ed. Mc Graw-Hill, 2003. textbook:[TL] =  Thompson, Leigh L. The Mind and Heart of the Negotiator. 4th ed. Prentice Hall, 2008. level:Graduate instructors:Ofer Sharone term:Spring 2014 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), This Course at MIT description:This course provides understanding of the theory and processes of negotiation as practiced in a variety of settings. It is designed for relevance to the broad spectrum of bargaining problems faced by the manager and professional. With an emphasis on simulations, exercises, role playing and cases, students are given an opportunity to develop negotiation skills experientially and to understand negotiation in useful analytical frameworks.
15.667 | Negotiation and Conflict Management | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-667-negotiation-and-conflict-management-spring-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Mary Rowe term:Spring 2001 features:Lecture notes description:Negotiation and Conflict Management presents negotiation theory &#8211; strategies and styles &#8211; within an employment context. 15.667 meets only eleven times, with a different topic each week, which is why students should commit to attending all classes. In addition to the theory and exercises presented in class, students practice negotiating with role-playing simulations that cover a range of topics. Students also learn how to negotiate in difficult situations, which include abrasiveness, racism, sexism, whistle-blowing, and emergencies. The course covers conflict management as a first party and as a third party: third-party skills include helping others deal directly with their conflicts, mediation, investigation, arbitration, and helping the system change as a result of a dispute.Learning and grading in 15.667 is based on: readings, simulations and class discussions, four self-assessments, your analysis of the negotiations of others, writing each week in your journal, and writing three Little Papers.
15.760B | Introduction to Operations Management | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-760b-introduction-to-operations-management-spring-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Jérémie Gallien term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This half-term course introduces students to problems and analysis related to the design, planning, control, and improvement of manufacturing and service operations. Class sessions involve explaining concepts, working examples, and discussing cases. A wide range of topics are covered, including: process analysis, quality management, supply chain design, procurement, and product development. Toward the end of the course, students work in teams to manage a virtual factory in a web-based simulation exercise.
15.762J | Supply Chain Planning | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-762j-supply-chain-planning-spring-2011 | textbook:[SKS] =  Simchi-Levi, David, Philip Kaminsky, and Edith Simchi-Levi. Designing and Managing the Supply Chain. McGraw Hill/Irwin, 2007. textbook:Chopra, Sunil, and Peter Meindl. "Understanding the Supply Chain." Chapter 1 in Supply Chain Management. 3rd ed. Prentice Hall, 2006, pp. 3-26. textbook:Nahmias, Steven. "Inventory Control Subject to Uncertain Demand." Chapter 5 in Production and Operations Analysis. McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 2000, pp. 265-313. textbook:Hopp, Wallace, and Mark Spearman. "Inventory Control: From EOQ to ROP." Chapter 2 in Factory Physics. 2nd ed. McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 2000. textbook:Chopra, Sunil, and Peter Meindl. "Planning and Managing Inventories in a Supply Chain." Part IV in Supply Chain Management. 3rd ed. Prentice Hall, 2006, pp. 249-383. level:Graduate instructors:Stephen Graves,  David Simchi-Levi term:Spring 2011 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:15.762J Supply Chain Planning focuses on effective supply chain strategies for companies that operate globally, with an emphasis on how to plan and integrate supply chain components into a coordinated system. Students are exposed to concepts and models important in supply chain planning with emphasis on key tradeoffs and phenomena. The course introduces and utilizes key tactics such as risk pooling and inventory placement, integrated planning and collaboration, and information sharing. Lectures, computer exercises, and case discussions introduce various models and methods for supply chain analysis and optimization.
15.763J | Manufacturing System and Supply Chain Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-763j-manufacturing-system-and-supply-chain-design-spring-2005 | textbook:Simchi-Levi, David, Philip Kaminsky, and Edith Simchi-Levi. Designing and Managing the Supply Chain. 2nd ed. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 2003. textbook:Hopp, Wallace, and Mark Spearman. Factory Physics. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Irwin, 2000. textbook:Nahmias, Steven. Production and Operations Analysis. 4th ed. Boston, MA: Irwin, 2000. textbook:Chopra, Sunil and Peter Meindl. Supply Chain Management. 2nd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2004. textbook:Shapiro, Jeremy. Modeling the Supply Chain. Pacific Grove, CA: Duxbury, 2001. textbook:Silver, Edward, David Pyke, and Rein Peterson. Inventory Management and Production Planning and Scheduling. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Wiley, 1998. level:Graduate instructors:David Simchi-Levi,  Stephen Graves term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:15.763J focuses on decision making for system design, as it arises in manufacturing systems and supply chains. Students are exposed to frameworks and models for structuring the key issues and trade-offs. The class presents and discusses new opportunities, issues and concepts introduced by the internet and e-commerce. It also introduces various models, methods and software tools for logistics network design, capacity planning and flexibility, make-buy, and integration with product development. Industry applications and cases illustrate concepts and challenges. The class is recommended for anyone concentrating in Operations Management, and is a second half-term subject. 
15.768 | Management of Services: Concepts, Design, and Delivery | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-768-management-of-services-concepts-design-and-delivery-fall-2010 | textbook:Womack, James P., Daniel T. Jones, and Daniel Roos. Chapters 1-3 in The Machine that Changed the World: The Story of Lean Production. Harper Collins, 1991. level:Graduate instructors:Charles H. Fine term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:15.768 Management of Services: Concepts, Design, and Delivery explores the use of operations tools and perspectives in the service sector, including both for-profit and not-for-profit organizations. The course builds on conceptual frameworks and cases from a wide range of service operations, selected from health care, hospitality, internet services, supply chain, transportation, retailing, food service, entertainment, financial services, humanitarian services, government services, and others.
15.769 | Operations Strategy		 (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-769-operations-strategy-fall-2010 | textbook:[B&R] =  Beckman, Sara, and Donald Rosenfield. Operations Strategy: Competing in the 21st Century. McGraw-Hill/Irwin, 2007. textbook:[Fine] =  Fine, Charles H. Clockspeed: Winning Industry Control in the Age of Temporary Advantage. Basic Books, 1999. textbook:Womack, James P., Daniel T. Jones, and Daniel Roos. Chapters 1-3 in The Machine that Changed the World: The Story of Lean Production. Harper Collins, 1991. textbook:Hayes, Robert H., Gary P. Pisano, David M. Upton, and Steven C. Wheelwright. Operations, Strategy, and Technology: Pursuing the Competitive Edge. Wiley, 2004. textbook:Slack, Nigel, and Mike Lewis. Operations Strategy. 2nd ed. Prentice Hall, 2007. textbook:Hill, Terry. Manufacturing Strategy: Texts and Cases. 2nd ed. Palgrave Macmillian, 2000. textbook:Van Mieghem, Jan A. Operations Strategy: Principles and Practice. Dynamic Ideas, 2008. textbook:Womack, James P., Daniel T. Jones, and Daniel Roos. The Machine that Changed the World. Free Press, 2007. textbook:Hayes, Robert H., Steven C. Wheelwright, and Kim B. Clark. Dynamic Manufacturing: Creating the Learning Organization. Free Press 1988. textbook:Womack, James P., and Daniel T. Jones. Lean Thinking. 2nd ed. Free Press, 2003. textbook:Lester, Richard K. The Productive Edge. W. W. Norton & Company, 1998. textbook:Friedman, Thomas L. The World is Flat. Picador, 2007. textbook:Diamond Jared. Collapse. Rev. ed. Penguin 2011. textbook:Hammer, Michael. The Agenda. Crown Business, 2001. textbook:Hammer, Michael, and Steven Stanton. The Reengineering Revolution. Harper Business, 1995. textbook:Klein, Janice A. Revitalizing Manufacturing: Text and Cases. CRC Press, 1992. textbook:Dertouzos, Michael L., Richard K. Lester, and Robert M. Solow. Made In America:  Regaining the Productive Edge. MIT Press, 1989. textbook:Cohen, Stephen S., and John Zysman. Manufacturing Matters: The Myth of the Post-Industrial. Basic Books, 1988. textbook:Laseter, Timothy M. Balanced Sourcing: Cooperation and Competition in Supplier Relationships. Jossey-Bass, 1998. textbook:Pine, B. Joseph, and Stan Davis. Mass Customization: The New Frontier in Business Competition. Harvard Business School Press, 1999. textbook:Berger, Suzanne. How We Compete: What Companies Around the World Are Doing to Make it in Today's Global Economy. Crown Business, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Charles H. Fine,  Donald Rosenfield term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes description:15.769 Operations Strategy provides a unifying framework for analyzing strategic issues in manufacturing and service operations. Students analyze the relationships between manufacturing and service companies and their suppliers, customers, and competitors. The course covers strategic decisions in technology, facilities, vertical integration, human resources, and other areas, and also explores means of competition such as cost, quality, and innovativeness.
15.769 | Operations Strategy		 (Spring 2003) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-769-operations-strategy-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Charles H. Fine,  Michael Hammer term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course will address operations strategy by building on the concepts of: Reengineering and process design developed by Dr. Michael Hammer. Manufacturing strategy as developed in the literature, primarily by people at HBS. Supply chain design and 3-D concurrent engineering literature as developed in Charles Fine&#8217;s book, Clockspeed: Winning Industry Control in the Age of Temporary Advantage. Perseus Books, 1999.The concepts there emphasize the necessity of integrating product strategy, manufacturing strategy, and supply chain strategy.&#160;As a result, each of these will be touched upon in the course.
15.778 | Management of Supply Networks for Products and Services | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-778-management-of-supply-networks-for-products-and-services-summer-2004 | textbook:Required ReadingsReichheld, Frederick F., and W. Earl Sasser. "Zero Defections: Quality Comes to Services." Harvard Business Review (September-October 1990): 105-111. Reprint #90508. Berry, Leonard L. "Discovering the Soul of Services." Chapter 1 in The Nine Drivers of Sustainable Business Success. Free Press, 1999, pp. 1-18. level:Graduate instructors:Gabriel Bitran term:Summer 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course covers organizational, strategic and operational aspects of managing Supply Networks (SNs) from domestic and international perspectives. Topics include alternative SN structures, strategic alliances, design of delivery systems and the role of third party logistics providers. Many of the activities exchanged among enterprises in a SN are of a service nature, and the final output is often a combination of tangible products and services which the end-customer purchases. A series of concepts, frameworks and analytic tools are provided to better understand the management of service operations. Guest speakers share their experiences in managing SNs and services. Restricted to MIT Sloan Fellows in Innovation and Global Leadership.
15.810 | Marketing Management		 (Fall 2010) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-810-marketing-management-fall-2010 | textbook:Kotler, Philip, and Kevin Keller. Marketing Management. 13th ed. Prentice Hall, 2008. textbook:Best, Roger J. Market-Based Management – Strategies for Growing Customer Value and Profitability. 5th ed. Prentice Hall, 2009. textbook:Paul, Peter J., and James Donelly. "Analyzing Marketing Problems and Cases." Section II in A Preface to Marketing Management. Richard D. Irwin, Inc., 1994. textbook:Chernev, Alexander. "Managing the Competition." In Strategic Marketing Management. Brightstar Media, Inc., 2009. textbook:Best, Rogers. "Economic Benefits and Value Creation." In Market-Based Management-Strategies for Growing Customer Value and Profitability. 5th ed. Prentice Hall, 2009. textbook:Chernev, Alexander. "Segmentation and Targeting Analysis." In Strategic Marketing Management. Brightstar Media, Inc., 2009. textbook:———. "Value Proposition and Positioning." In Strategic Marketing Management. Brightstar Media, Inc., 2009. textbook:Ortmeyer, Gwendolyn K. "Ethical Issues in Pricing." Chapter 5.1 in Ethics in Marketing. By N. Craig Smith and John A. Quelch. Irwin, 1992. level:Graduate instructors:Natalie Mizik term:Fall 2010 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:15.810 Marketing Management is designed to serve as an introduction to the theory and practice of marketing. Students will improve their ability to develop effective marketing strategies and assess market opportunities, as well as design strategy implementation programs. In addition, students will have the opportunity to communicate and defend their recommendations and build upon the recommendations of their peers. We will explore the theory and applications of marketing concepts through a mix of cases, discussions, lectures, guest speakers, individual assignments, and group projects. We will draw materials from a variety of sources and settings including services, consumer and business-to-business products.
15.810 | Marketing Management		 (Fall 2004) | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-810-marketing-management-fall-2004 | textbook:Saunders, P. "The Growth Machine." In Capitalism. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press, 1995, pp. 1-12. textbook:Milgrom, P., and John Roberts. "Economic Organization and Efficiency." Chapter 2 in Economics, Organization, and Management. Newark, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1992. textbook:Ogilvy, D. "How to Produce Advertising That Sells." Ogilvy on Advertising. New York, NY: Vintage Press, 1985. level:Graduate instructors:Duncan Simester term:Fall 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:This course provides an introduction to the fundamental concepts of marketing, including a customer orientation, matched with attention to competition and core strengths. It is organized so that each class is either a lecture or a case discussion. This course is a half semester MBA course taught to students in their first semester at Sloan. Together with their other core courses, students have the option of taking this course or an introductory finance course. This course is a prerequisite for all of the advanced marketing courses.
15.822 | Strategic Marketing Measurement | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-822-strategic-marketing-measurement-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Drazen Prelec term:Fall 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:Marketing research may be divided into methods that emphasize understanding "the customer" and methods that emphasize understanding "the market." This course (15.822) deals with the market. The companion course (15.821) deals with the customer.The course will teach you how to write, conduct and analyze a marketing research survey. The emphasis will be on discovering market structure and segmentation, but you can pursue other project applications.A major objective of the course is to give you some "hands-on" exposure to analysis techniques that are widely used in consulting and marketing research factor analysis, perceptual mapping, conjoint, and cluster analysis). These techniques used to be considered advanced but now involve just a few keystrokes on most stat software packages.The course assumes familiarity with basic probability, statistics, and multiple linear regression.
15.834 | Marketing Strategy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-834-marketing-strategy-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Birger Wernerfelt term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes description:The course is aimed at helping students look at the entire marketing mix in light of the strategy of the firm. It is most helpful to students pursuing careers in which they need to look at the firm as a whole. Examples include consultants, investment analysts, entrepreneurs, and product managers. ObjectivesIdentify, evaluate, and develop marketing strategies.Evaluate a firm&#8217;s opportunities.Anticipate competitive dynamics.Evaluate the sustainability of competitive advantages.
15.840 | Special Seminar in Marketing: Marketing Management | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-840-special-seminar-in-marketing-marketing-management-spring-2004 | textbook:The course draws upon a Reading Packet containing cases, required readings, and background readings, as shown in the table below. There is no required textbook for this course. For a basic textbook on marketing, including marketing terms, examples, and a general taxonomy of issues, the instructors recommend:  Armstrong, Gary, and Philip Kotler. Marketing: An Introduction. 6th ed. Paramus, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Dan Ariely,  Michael Norton term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes description:The purpose of 15.840 is to:Introduce key marketing ideas and phenomena.Develop students' skills in marketing analysis and planning.Provide a forum (both written and oral) for presenting and defending recommendations and critically examining and discussing those of others.&#160;An emphasis is placed&#160;on theory and practice that draws on market research, competitive analysis, and marketing science.
15.963 | Advanced Strategy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-963-advanced-strategy-spring-2008 | textbook:Liker, Jeffrey. "The Toyota Way." Chapter 1 in The Toyota Way. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2003. textbook:Gawande, Atul. Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance. Iowa City, IA: Picador, 2008. textbook:Fishman, Charles. "Sam Walton's Ten-Pound Bass." Chapter 2 in The Wal-Mart Effect: How the World's Most Powerful Company Really Works — and How It's Transforming the American Economy. New York, NY: Penguin, 2006. textbook:Gittell, Jody. "Southwest versus American Airlines: The Power of Relational Coordination." Chapter 3 in The Southwest Airlines Way: Using the Power of Relationships to Achieve High Performance. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2005. textbook:Roberts, John. "Strategy and Organizations," and "Key Concepts for Organization Design." Chapters 1 and 2 in The Modern Firm. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2007. textbook:Saloner, Garth, Andrea Shepard, and Joel Podolny. "Internal Context: Organization Design." Chapter 4 in Strategic Management. New York, NY: Wiley, 2005. textbook:Johnson, H. Thomas, and Anders Broms. "Relationships (MBM) versus Quantity (MBR)." Chapter 2 in Profit Beyond Measure: Extraordinary Results Through Attention to Work and People. New York, NY: Free Press, 2000. textbook:Womack, James, Daniel Jones, and Daniel Roos. "What We Have Learned About Lean Production Since 1990." Afterword from The Machine That Changed the World. New York, NY: Free Press, 2007. textbook:Collins, James. Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap... and Others Don't. New York, NY: Collins Business, 2001. level:Graduate instructors:Rebecca Henderson term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course draws on a wide range of perspectives to explore the roots of long term competitive advantage in unusually successful firms. Using a combination of cases, simulations, readings and, most importantly, lively discussion, the course will explore the ways in which long term advantage is built from first mover advantage, increasing returns, and unique organizational competencies. We will focus particularly on the ways in which the actions of senior management build competitive advantage over time, and on the strategic implications of understanding the roots of a firm's success.
15.963 | Management Accounting and Control | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-963-management-accounting-and-control-spring-2007 | textbook:Zimmerman, Jerry. Accounting for Decision Making and Control. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 2005. level:Graduate instructors:Mozaffar Khan term:Spring 2007 features:Lecture notes description:This course is an introduction to the use of accounting information by managers for decision making, performance evaluation and control. The course should be useful for those who intend to work as management consultants, for LFM (Leaders for Manufacturing) students, and in general, for those who will become senior managers. 
15.969 | Dynamic Leadership: Using Improvisation in Business | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-969-dynamic-leadership-using-improvisation-in-business-fall-2004 | textbook:Anonymous, and Joe Klein. "Primary Colors." Chapter 1 in Primary Colors. New York: Warner Books, Inc.,  1996, 1-32. textbook:Halpern, C., D. Close, and K. Johnson. "What is Improve, Anyway?" In Truth in Comedy: The Manual of Improvisation.Colorado Springs: Meriwether Publishing Ltd., 1994, 13-21. textbook:Halpem, Charna, Del Close, and Kim “Howard” Johnson. "But Seriously, Folks." In Truth in Comedy: The Manual of Improvisation. Colorado Springs: Meriwether Publishing Ltd., 1994, 23-35. textbook:Spolin, Viola. "Creative Experience." In Improvisation for the Theater. Illinois: Northwestern University Press, 1999, 3-17. level:Graduate instructors:Lakshmi Balachandra term:Fall 2004 features:Selected video lectures, Selected lecture notes description:The first two weeks of this course are an overview of performing improvisation with introductory and advanced exercises in the techniques of improvisation.&nbsp;The final four weeks focus on applying these concepts in business situations to practice and mastering these improvisation tools in leadership learning.
15.974 | Practical Leadership | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-974-practical-leadership-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Pat Bentley<br/>Senior Lecturer term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Practical Leadership is an interactive seminar where students receive repeated coaching and real-time feedback on their own leadership capabilities from their peers and the instructor.  The course is structured around a set of readings.  However, the key component is each student's own self-assessment.  These self-assessments are done by the students in the first week of the semester. The areas for improvement that the students identify are then targeted in the weekly role plays that are customized for each student in the class.  The goal of the class is for each student to increase his or her own leadership abilities through an ongoing cycle of practice, feedback and reflection.
15.974 | Leadership Lab | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-974-leadership-lab-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Claus Otto Scharmer term:Spring 2003 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples description:This five-day interactive and experiential workshop focuses on how leaders lead innovations that both promote social responsibility and produce business success. The workshop is organized around three main parts: observation, sense-making, and creating. During the observation phase, students spend a full day inside the Boston office of the design company IDEO and visit some of the most interesting proven innovators in corporate social responsibility such as Ben &amp; Jerry&rsquo;s, KLD, MBDC, Plug Power (fuel cell technology), PwC, Schlumberger, or core team members of the UN Global Compact. After returning from their company visits, students describe to one another what they saw and learned.&nbsp;In the final part of the Lab, students conceive and implement innovation projects that serve the needs of a local community. Each team presents its practical accomplishments on the final day of the Lab. Starting in 2004 this course will be renumbered as 15.975.
15.975 | U-Lab: Leading Profound Innovation for a More Sustainable World | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-975-u-lab-leading-profound-innovation-for-a-more-sustainable-world-fall-2010 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Claus Otto Scharmer term:Fall 2010 features:Assignments (no solutions) description:15.975 U-Lab: Leading Profound Innovation for a More Sustainable World is an interactive and experiential class about leading profound innovation for pioneering a more sustainable economy and society. The class is organized around personal reflection practices, relational practices, and societal practices. It focuses on the intertwined relationship between the evolution of capitalism, multi-stakeholder innovation, and presencing.
15.978 | Leadership Tools and Teams: A Product Development Lab | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-978-leadership-tools-and-teams-a-product-development-lab-spring-2007 | textbook:Ancona, Deborah, and Henrik Bresman. X-teams: How to Build Teams That Lead, Innovate and Succeed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 2007. textbook:Whetten, David, and Kim Cameron. Developing Management Skills. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2007. level:Graduate instructors:Deborah Ancona term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples) description:In this class you will be creating a leadership development tool for students like yourselves in the leadership program at Sloan. This tool might be a coaching guide for second-year pilots, a leadership workbook for MBA students to use during their summer employment, a leadership assessment for club presidents or a workshop on networking. You will be free to choose the tool that you want to develop, but by the end of the class there must be a product that can be used at Sloan. In addition, the tools must link in some way to the leadership model used at Sloan.
15.980J | Organizing for Innovative Product Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-980j-organizing-for-innovative-product-development-spring-2007 | textbook:Allen, Thomas J. Managing the Flow of Technology. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1984, chapters 1 and 2. textbook:Stokes, Donald E. Pasteur's Quadrant: Basic Science and Technological Innovation. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press, 1997. textbook:Allen, Thomas J. "Distinguishing Engineers from Scientists." In The Human Side of Managing Technological Innovation. Edited by Ralph Katz. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. level:Graduate instructors:Heng Xu,  Tom Allen term:Spring 2007 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:This course introduces new product development. Topics include technology transfer, relations between science and technology, and the innovation process.
15.992 | S-Lab: Laboratory for Sustainable Business | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-992-s-lab-laboratory-for-sustainable-business-spring-2008 | textbook:Locke, Richard M. "The Promise and Perils of Globalization: The Case of Nike." Chapter 3 in Management: Inventing and Delivering Its Future. Edited by Thomas A. Kochan and Richard Schmalensee. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003, pp. 39-70. textbook:Elhauge, Einer. "Corporate Managers' Operational Discretion to Sacrifice Corporate Profits in the Public Interest." Chapter 2 in Environmental Protection and the Social Responsibility of Firms. Edited by Bruce Hay, Robert Stavins, and Richard Vietor. Washington, DC: Resources for the Future, 2005. textbook:Hoffman, Andrew. "The Coming Market Shift: Business Strategy and Climate Change." Chapter 7 in Cut Carbon, Grow Profits: Business Strategies for Managing Climate Change and Sustainability. Edited by Kenny Tang and Ruth Yeoh. London, UK: Middlesex University Press, 2007. textbook:Hoffman, Andrew. "The Coming Market Shift: Business Strategy and Climate Change." Chapter 7 in Cut Carbon, Grow Profits: Business Strategies for Managing Climate Change and Sustainability. Edited by Kenny Tang and Ruth Yeoh. London, UK: Middlesex University Press, 2007. textbook:Meadows, Donella. "The Limits to Growth Revisited." In The Global Citizen. Washington, DC: Island Press, 1991, pp. 29-33. textbook:Senge, Peter. "Unconventional Allies: Coke and WWF Partner for Sustainable Water." Chapter 7 in The Necessary Revolution. New York, NY: Random House, Inc., 2008. textbook:Meadows, Donella. "Living Lightly and Inconsistently on the Land." In The Global Citizen. Washington, DC: Island Press, 1991, pp. 15-17. textbook:———. "The Limits to Growth Revisited." In The Global Citizen. Washington, DC: Island Press, 1991, pp. 29-33. level:Graduate instructors:John Sterman,  Rebecca Henderson,  Richard Locke,  Sarah Slaughter term:Spring 2008 features:Selected lecture notes, Projects (no examples), Assignments (no solutions) description:How can we translate real-world challenges into future business opportunities? How can individuals, organizations, and society learn and undergo change at the pace needed to stave off worsening problems? Today, organizations of all kinds&mdash;traditional manufacturing firms, those that extract resources, a huge variety of new start-ups, services, non-profits, and governmental organizations of all types, among many others&mdash;are tackling these very questions. For some, the massive challenges of moving towards sustainability offer real opportunities for new products and services, for reinventing old ones, or for solving problems in new ways. The course aims to provide participants with access and in-depth exposure to firms that are actively grappling with the sustainability-related issues through cases, readings and guest speakers.
15.996 | Cross-Cultural Leadership | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-996-cross-cultural-leadership-fall-2004 | level:Graduate instructors:Pat Bentley<br/>Senior Lecturer term:Fall 2004 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Cross Cultural Leadership is a collaborative research seminar that examines what constitutes "effective" leadership across cultures. It is collaborative because the students are expected to provide some of the content. The weekly readings target particular aspects of cultural differentiation. Working within those topics, students are asked to describe aspects of leadership in particular cultures based on their research and/or personal experiences. The goal of the course is to help prepare students for business assignments outside of their native countries.Course deliverables include: active participation in the class, contribution of class content on a weekly basis and an end of course paper that explores some aspect of leadership across cultures.
15.S07 | GlobalHealth Lab | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/sloan-school-of-management/15-s07-globalhealth-lab-spring-2013 | textbook:Debas, Haile T., Richard Gosselin, and Colin McCord. "Surgery." Chapter 67 in Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. 2nd ed. Edited by Dean T. Jamison, Joel G. Breman, and Anthony R. Measham. World Bank Publications, 2006. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Anjali Sastry term:Spring 2013 features:Lecture notes, Projects and examples, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT description:This course pairs faculty-mentored student teams with enterprises on the front lines of health care delivery in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. To tackle specific barriers identified by each partnering organization, the course is built around custom-designed projects in strategy, business model innovation, operations, marketing, and technology. Class sessions include interactive cases, practical exercises, and lively conversations with experts, all designed to support project work before, during, and after the intensive two-week onsite collaboration with entrepreneurs, leaders, staff, and stakeholders in the setting. Course assignments include a portfolio of host deliverable, a foundational toolkit designed to support each project, and a distillation of learning from the field. Acknowledgements Special thanks is given to Imperial Health Sciences, Unjani Clinic and L V Prasad Eye Institute for allowing their organizations to be featured in the sample student projects on this course site.
17.462 | Innovation in Military Organizations | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/political-science/17-462-innovation-in-military-organizations-fall-2005 | textbook:Wilson, James Q. Bureaucracy: What Government Agencies Do and Why They Do It. New York, NY: Basic Books, 1991. textbook:Christensen, Clayton M. The Innovator's Dilemma. New York, NY: HarperBusiness Essentials, 2003. textbook:Krepinevich, Andrew. The Army and Vietnam. Baltimore, MD: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1988. textbook:Wilson, James Q. Bureaucracy: What Government Agencies Do and Why They Do It. New York, NY: Basic Books, 1991, chapters 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, and 12. textbook:Huntington, Samuel P. "Officership as a Profession," and "The Military Mind: Conservative Realism of the Professional Military Ethic." Chapters 1 and 3 in The Soldier and the State. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 1981, pp. 7-18 and 59-79. textbook:Moore, Lt. Gen. Harold, and Joseph L. Galloway. "Into the Valley," and "The Storm of Battle." Chapters 5 and 8 in We Were Soldiers Once...and Young. New York, NY: Harper Perennial, 1993, pp. 55-64, and 92-105. textbook:Posen, Barry R. "The Importance of Military Doctrine," and "Explaining Military Doctrine." Chapters 1 and 2 in The Sources of Military Doctrine: France, Britain, and Germany Between the World Wars. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1984, pp. 13-33, and 34-80. textbook:Rosen, Stephen P. Winning the Next War. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1994, chapters 1 and 9, pp. 1-55 and 251-262. textbook:Christensen, Clayton M. The Innovator's Dilemma. New York, NY: HarperCollins Business Essentials, 2003, pp. 1-96, and 187-212. textbook:MacIsaac, David. "Voices from the Central Blue: The Air Power Theorists." In Makers of Modern Strategy: From Machiavelli to the Nuclear Age. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1986, pp. 624-647. textbook:Meilinger, Phillip S. "Air Targeting Strategies: An Overview." In Air Power Confronts an Unstable World. Edited by Richard Hallion. London, UK: Brasseys, 1997, pp. 51-80. textbook:Bond, Brian. "Mechanization: The Second Phase, 1933-39." Chapter 6 in British Military Policy between the Two World Wars. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press, 1980, pp. 161-190. textbook:Larson, Robert H. "The Years of Experiment: 1927-34." Chapter 5 in The British Army and the Theory of Armored Warfare, 1918-1940. Newark, DE: University of Delaware Press, 1984, pp. 132-170. textbook:Cooper, Mathew. "The Battle for Ideas." Part II in The German Army: 1933-1945. New York, NY: Stein and Day, 1978, pp. 113-166. textbook:Johnson, David E. "Alternatives for Armor." Chapter 10 in Fast Tanks and Heavy Bombers: Innovation in the U.S. Army 1917-1945. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1998, pp. 116-152. textbook:Griffith, Paddy. "Conclusions." Chapter 11 in Battle Tactics of the Western Front. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1996, pp. 192-200. textbook:Hallion, Richard P. "The Genesis of Anglo-American Air Support: The British Experience in the Western Desert," and "The Necessary Interlude: Doctrine and the American Experience in the Pacific, Tunisian, and Italian Campaigns." Chapters 12 and 13 in Strike from the Sky: The History of Battlefield Air Attack, 1911-1945. Washington, DC: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1989, pp. 149-162 and 163-187. textbook:Muller, Richard. "Close Air Support: The German, British, and American Experiences." In Military Innovation in the Interwar Period. Edited by Williamson Murray, et al. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998, pp. 144-190. textbook:Cohen, Eliot A., and John Gooch. "Failure to Learn: American Antisubmarine Warfare in 1942." In Military Misfortunes: The Anatomy of Failure in War. New York, NY: Free Press, 2005, pp. 59-94. textbook:Beesly, Patrick. "The First Twelve Months: A Lean Time," "Triton to the Rescue," and "January-May 1942: Climax of the Battle of the Atlantic." Chapters 2, 10, and 11 in Very Special Intelligence: the Story of the Admiralty's Operational Intelligence Centre, 1939-1945. London, UK: Greenhill Books; Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole Books, 2006, pp. ix-xvii, 24-41, 154-171, and 173-185. textbook:Sapolsky, Harvey M. Science and the Navy. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1990, chapter 2, pp. 9-36. textbook:Sapolsky, Harvey M. The Polaris System Development: Bureaucratic and Programmatic Success in Government. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1972, chapters 1, 2, 4, and 8. textbook:Friedman, Norman. Seapower and Space: From the Dawn of the Missile Age to Net-Centric Warfare. Annapolis, MD: Naval Institute Press, 2000, chapters 8 and 9, pp. 173-229. textbook:Art, Robert J., and Stephen E. Ockden. "The Domestic Politics of Cruise Missile Development 1970-1980." In Cruise Missiles: Technology, Strategy and Politics. Edited by Richard Betts. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institute, 1981, pp. 359-413. textbook:Krepinevich, Andrew. The Army and Vietnam. Baltimore, MD: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1988. textbook:Anderegg, C. R. "Mud Beaters." Chapter 12 in Sierra Hotel: Flying Air Force Fighters in the Decade After Vietnam. Washington, DC: Air Force History and Museums Program, 2001, pp. 119-142. textbook:Shapiro, Jeremy. "Information and War: Is it a Revolution?" In The Changing Role of Information in Warfare. Edited by Z. M. Khalizad and J. P. White. Santa Monica, CA: RAND, 1999, pp. 113-154. textbook:Sapolsky, Harvey, Benjamin Friedman, and Brendan Green, eds. US Military Innovation Since the Cold War: Creation Without Destruction. New York, NY: Routledge, 2009. level:Graduate instructors:Barry Posen,  Harvey Sapolsky term:Fall 2005 features:Selected lecture notes description:This seminar has three purposes. One, it inquires into the causes of military innovation by examining a number of the most outstanding historical cases. Two, it views military innovations through the lens of organization theory to develop generalizations about the innovation process within militaries. Three, it uses the empirical study of military innovations as a way to examine the strength and credibility of hypotheses that organization theorists have generated about innovation in non-military organizations.
ESD.172J | X PRIZE Workshop: Grand Challenges in Energy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-172j-x-prize-workshop-grand-challenges-in-energy-fall-2009 | textbook:Christensen, Clayton. "Disruptive Technological Change in the Mechanical Excavator Industry." In The Innovator's Dilemma. New York, NY: Harper Business, 2003. textbook:Foster, R. "The S-Curve: A New Forecasting Tool." In Innovation, The Attackers Advantage. New York, NY: Summit Books, Simon and Schuster, 1988. textbook:Moore, Geoffrey A. "High-Tech Marketing Illusion." Chapter 1 in Crossing the Chasm. New York, NY: Harper Collins, 2002. textbook:Sobel, Dava. Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time. New York, NY: Walker Publishing Company, 2007. textbook:Christensen, Clayton, Scott Anthony, and Erik Roth. Seeing What's Next: Using the Theories of Innovation to Predict Industry Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 2004. textbook:Utterback, James. Mastering the Dynamics of Innovation. 2nd ed. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press, 1996. level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Erika Wagner term:Fall 2009 features:Selected video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Projects and examples, Assignments (no solutions) description:In 2004, the Ansari X PRIZE for suborbital spaceflight captured the public's imagination and revolutionized an industry, leveraging a $10M prize purse into over $100M in innovation. Building from that success, the X PRIZE Foundation is now developing new prizes to focus innovation around "Grand Challenge" themes, including genomics, energy, healthcare, and education.This course will examine the intersection of incentives and innovation, drawing on economic models, historic examples, and recent experience of the X PRIZE Foundation to help develop a future prize in Energy Storage Technologies.
ESD.801 | Leadership Development | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/engineering-systems-division/esd-801-leadership-development-fall-2014 | textbook:Bennis, Warren G., and Burt Nanus. "Mistaking Charge" and "Leading Others, Managing Yourself." In Leaders: Strategies for Taking Charge. Harper Business, 2007, pp. 1–17 and 18–79. textbook:Heifetz, Ronald A., and Martin Linsky. "The Boston Heart of Danger." Chapter 1 in Leadership on the Line: Staying Alive through the Dangers of Leading. Harvard Business Review Press, 2002. textbook:Tan, Chade-Meng. Search Inside Yourself: The Unexpected Path to Achieving Success, Happiness (and World Peace). HarperOne, 2014. textbook:Drucker, Peter F. "The Discipline of Innovation" and "The Practice of Innovation." Chapters 7 and 8 in Leader to Leader: Enduring Insights on Leadership from the Drucker Foundation's Award Winning Journal. Edited by Frances Hesselbein and Paul M. Cohen. Jossey-Bass, 1999. textbook:Zaleznik, Abraham. "Managers and Leaders: Are They Different?" In Designing and Managing Your Career. Edited by Harry Levinson. Harvard Business Review Press, 1988. textbook:Axelrod, Alan. "Queen of the Bottom Line." In Elizabeth I CEO: Strategic Lessons from the Leader Who Built an Empire. Prentice Hall Press, 2002. level:Graduate instructors:Dava Newman term:Fall 2014 features:Assignments (no solutions), This Course at MIT description:Students work in a seminar environment to enhance their leadership capabilities. An initial Leadership Laboratory Outward Bound experience builds trust, teamwork and communications. Readings and assignments emphasize the characteristics of effective leadership. Distinguished leaders participate in the &quot;Leadership Lunch&quot; story-telling series to share their experiences and to provide recommendations. Discussions help explore and further probe leadership development. The learning experience culminates in a personal leadership plan.
