9.00 | Introduction to Psychological Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-00-introduction-to-psychology-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate features:Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) prereq:none instructors:J. D. Gabrieli term:U (Spring) textbook:Introducing Psychology: Brain, Person, Group (Kosslyn, Stephen M.; Rosenberg, Robin S.)  description:A survey of the scientific study of human nature, including how the mind works, and how the brain supports the mind. Topics include the mental and neural bases of perception, emotion, learning, memory, cognition, child development, personality, psychopathology, and social interaction. Consideration of how such knowledge relates to debates about nature and nurture, free will, consciousness, human differences, self, and society.  4-0-8 units. HASS-S
9.01 | Introduction to Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-01-introduction-to-neuroscience-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate features: prereq:physics ii (gir) or permission of instructor instructors:M. Bear term:U (Fall) textbook:Bear, Mark F., Barry W. Connors, and Michael A. Neuroscience: Exploring the Brain. 3rd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006.  description:Introduction to the mammalian nervous system, with emphasis on the structure and function of the human brain. Topics include the function of nerve cells, sensory systems, control of movement, learning and memory, and diseases of the brain.  4-0-8 units. REST
9.011 | Systems Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-011-the-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-i-fall-2002 | level:Graduate features: prereq:permission of instructor instructors:M. Wilson, E. K. Miller term:G (Fall) description:Survey of brain and behavioral studies. Examines principles underlying the structure and function of the nervous system, with a focus on systems approaches. Topics include development of the nervous system and its connections, sensory systems of the brain, the motor system, higher cortical functions, and behavioral and cellular analyses of learning and memory.Preference to first-year graduate students in BCS.  6-0-12 units
9.012 | Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-012-the-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-ii-spring-2006 | level:Graduate features: prereq:permission of instructor instructors:E. Gibson, P. Sinha, J. Tenenbaum term:G (Spring) description:Intensive survey of cognitive science. Topics include visual perception, language, memory, cognitive architecture, learning, reasoning, decision-making, and cognitive development. Topics covered from behavioral, computational, and neural perspectives.  6-0-12 units
9.013 | Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience Core II |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:G. Feng, L.-H. Tsai term:G (Spring) description:Survey and primary literature review of major areas in molecular and cellular neurobiology. Covers genetic neurotrophin signaling, adult neurogenesis, G-protein coupled receptor signaling, glia function, epigenetics, neuronal and homeostatic plasticity, neuromodulators of circuit function, and neurological/psychiatric disease mechanisms. Includes lectures and exams, and involves presentation and discussion of primary literature. 9.015[J] recommended, though the core subjects can be taken in any sequence. Same subject as 7.68[J] 3-0-9 units
9.014 | Quantitative Methods and Computational Models in Neurosciences (New) |  | prereq:none instructors:M. Jazayeri, D. Zysman term:G (Fall) description:Provides theoretical background and practical skills needed to analyze and model neurobiological observations at the molecular, systems and cognitive levels. Develops an intuitive understanding of mathematical tools and computational techniques which students apply to analyze, visualize and model research data using MATLAB programming. Topics include linear systems and operations, dimensionality reduction (e.g., PCA), Bayesian approaches, descriptive and generative models, classification and clustering, and dynamical systems.  3-1-8 units
9.015 | Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience Core I |  | prereq:none instructors:J. T. Littleton, H. Sive, F. Gertler term:G (Fall) description:Survey and primary literature review of major topic areas in molecular and cellular neurobiology. Covers neurogenomics, nervous system formation, axonal pathfinding, cytoskeletal regulation, synapse formation, neurotransmitter release, and cellular neurophysiology. Includes lectures and weekly paper write-ups, together with student presentations and discussion of primary literature. A final two-page research write-up is also due at the end of the term. Same subject as 7.65[J] 3-0-9 units
9.04 | Sensory Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-04-sensory-systems-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), This Course at MIT prereq:9.01 or permission of instructor instructors:G. Choi term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Spring) textbook:[FundamentalNeuro] =  Squire, Larry, et al, eds. Fundamental Neuroscience. 3rd ed. Academic Press, 2008. textbook:[AuditoryNeuro] =   Schnupp, J., I. Nelken, and A. King. Auditory Neuroscience: Making Sense of Sound. MIT Press, 2010. textbook:Fafrowicz, Magdalena, et al, eds. Section 5 in Neuroadaptive Systems: Theory and Applications. CRC Press, 2012, pp. 97–138. textbook:Sekuler, R., and R. Blake. Chapters 5–8 in Perception. McGraw-Hill College, 2001. textbook:Brown, M. "Efferent Systems to the Auditory Periphery." In Encyclopedia of Neuroscience. 4th ed. Edited by L. Squire, T. Albright, F. Bloom, F. Gage, and N. Spitzer. Academic Press, 2009. textbook:Caplan, D. T., and J. L. Gould. "Language and Communication—the part on human language." In Fundamental Neuroscience. 3rd ed. Edited by L. R. Squire, D. Berg, F. E. Bloom, et al. Academic Press, 2008, pp. 1184–98. textbook:Rockland, K. S., J. H. Kaas, and A. Peters, eds. Chapter 2 in Cerebral Cortex: Volume 12: Extrastriate Cortex in Primates. Springer, 1998.  description:Examines the neural bases of sensory perception. Focuses on physiological and anatomical studies of the mammalian nervous system as well as behavioral studies of animals and humans. Topics include visual pattern, color and depth perception, auditory responses and sound localization, olfactory and somatosensory perception.  3-0-9 units
9.07 | Statistics for Brain and Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-07-statistical-methods-in-brain-and-cognitive-science-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes prereq:9.40 instructors:E. N. Brown term:U (Fall) textbook:All readings are from:  Freedman, Pisani, and Purves. Statistics. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Norton, 1998.  description:Provides students with the basic tools for analyzing experimental data, properly interpreting statistical reports in the literature, and reasoning under uncertain situations. Topics organized around three key theories: probability, statistical, and the linear model. Probability theory covers axioms of probability, discrete and continuous probability models, law of large numbers, and the Central Limit Theorem. Statistical theory covers estimation, likelihood theory, Bayesian methods, bootstrap and other Monte Carlo methods, as well as hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, elementary design of experiments principles and goodness-of-fit. The linear model theory covers the simple regression model and the analysis of variance. Places equal emphasis on theory, data analyses, and simulation studies.  4-0-8 units
9.073 | Statistics for Neuroscience Research |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:E. N. Brown term:Acad Year 2016-2017: G (Spring) Acad Year 2017-2018: Not offered description:A survey of statistical methods for neuroscience research. Core topics include introductions to the theory of point processes, the generalized linear model, Monte Carlo methods, Bayesian methods, multivariate methods, time-series analysis, spectral analysis and state-space modeling. Emphasis on developing a firm conceptual understanding of the statistical paradigm and statistical methods primarily through analyses of actual experimental data. Same subject as HST.460[J] 3-0-9 units
9.09 | Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology |  | prereq:7.05 or 9.01 instructors:T. Littleton, M. Heiman term:U (Spring) textbook:Fundamental Neuroscience (Squire, Larry (Editor); Berg, Darwin (Editor); Bloom, Floyd E. (Editor); du Lac, Sascha (Editor); Ghosh, Anirvan (Editor); Spitzer, Nicholas C. (Editor))  description:See description under subject 7.29[J] . Same subject as 7.29[J] 4-0-8 units
9.10 | Cognitive Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-10-cognitive-neuroscience-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate features: prereq:9.01 instructors:R. Desimone, E. K. Miller term:U (Spring) textbook:Cognitive Neuroscience: The Biology of the Mind (Gazzaniga, Michael S.; Ivry, Richard B.; Mangun, George R.)  description:Explores the cognitive and neural processes that support attention, vision, language, social cognition, music understanding, emotion, motor control, and memory. Begins with the fundamental behavioral phenomena, then progresses to models based on brain systems in humans and animals, and ultimately models based on populations of neurons. Includes examples of clinical conditions and case studies in patients. Students prepare presentations summarizing journal articles.  3-0-9 units
9.110 | Nonlinear Control |  | prereq:2.151 6.241[j] 16.31 or permission of instructor instructors:J.-J. E. Slotine term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 2.152[J] . Same subject as 2.152[J] 3-0-9 units
9.12 | Experimental Molecular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-12-experimental-molecular-neurobiology-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate features: prereq:9.01 biology (gir) instructors:Y. Lin, G. Choi term:U (Spring) description:Experimental techniques in cellular and molecular neurobiology. Designed for students without previous experience in techniques of cellular and molecular biology. Experimental approaches include DNA manipulation, molecular clonging, protein biochemistry, dissection and culture of brain cells, synaptic protein analysis, immunocytochemistry, and fluorescent microscopy. One lab session plus one paper review session per week. Instruction and practice in written communication provided.Enrollment limited.  2-4-6 units. Institute LAB
9.123 | Neurotechnology in Action | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-123-neurotechnology-in-action-fall-2014 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT prereq:permission of instructor instructors:A. Jasanoff, E. Boyden, M. Jonas term:G (Fall) textbook:Raichle, Marcus E. "Functional Neuroimaging: A Historical and Physiological Perspective." In Handbook of Functional Neuroimaging of Cognition. MIT press, 2001, pp. 3–26. textbook:Huettel, Scott A., Allen W. Song, and Gregory McCarthy. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Vol. 1. Sinauer Associates, 2004.  description:Offers a fast-paced introduction to numerous laboratory methods at the forefront of modern neurobiology. Comprises a sequence of modules focusing on neurotechnologies that are developed and used by MIT research groups. Each module consists of a background lecture and 1-2 days of firsthand laboratory experience. Topics typically include optical imaging, optogenetics, high throughput neurobiology, MRI/fMRI, advanced electrophysiology, viral and genetic tools, and connectomics. Same subject as 20.203[J] 3-6-3 units
9.14 | Brain Structure and its Origins | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-14-brain-structure-and-its-origins-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate features:Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT prereq:9.01 instructors:G. E. Schneider term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Spring) textbook:Brain Structure and Its Origins: Function, Evolution, Development (Schneider, Gerald E.)  description:Provides an introduction to functional neuroanatomy with a focus on mammals, aided by studies of comparative neuroanatomy and evolution and of brain development. Topics include early steps to a central nervous system, basic patterns of brain and spinal cord connections, regional development and differentiation, regeneration, motor and sensory pathways and structures, systems underlying motivations, innate action patterns, formation of habits, and various cognitive functions. Review of lab techniques. Optional brain dissections.  3-0-9 units
9.15 | Neural Circuits, Neuromodulatory, and Neuroendocrine Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-15-biochemistry-and-pharmacology-of-synaptic-transmission-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features: prereq:9.01 or permission of instructor instructors:K. Tye term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Fall) textbook:Cooper, Jack R., Floyd E. Bloom, and Robert H. Roth. The Biochemical Basis of Neuropharmacology. 8th ed. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:*** Laterra, J., R. Keep, L. A. Betz, and G. W. Goldstein. "Blood-Brain Barrier." In Basic Neurochemistry: Molecular, Cellular, and Medical Aspects. Edited by George J. Siegel, Bernard W. Agranoff, R. Wayne Albers, Stephen K. Fisher, and Michael D. Uhler. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, c1999. textbook:*** Pardridge, W. M. "Regulation of Amino Acid Availability to the Brain." In Nutrition and the Brain. Vol. 1. Edited by R. J. Wurtman and J. J. Wurtman. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1977, pp. 142-175.  description:Studies how neural circuits give rise to behavior, and how neuromodulatory systems and pharmacological intervention can influence these processes. Lectures and selected publications cover the fundamentals of neuropharmacology, neuromodulatory systems, and approaches to understand circuit mechanisms. Provides a historical view of various neurotransmitter or neuromodulatory systems as well as an understanding of how research is conducted at the forefront of neuroscience today. Instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Students present a primary research article and also submit a research proposal which they have the opportunity to revise based on feedback.  3-0-9 units
9.16 | Cellular Neurophysiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-16-cellular-neurophysiology-spring-2002 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features: prereq:9.40 instructors:W. Xu term:U (Fall) description:Surveys the mechanisms of neuronal communication. Covers ion channels in excitable membrane, single cell computation, synaptic transmission, and synaptic plasticity. Correlates the properties of ion channels and synaptic transmission with their physiological function. Discusses the organizational principles for the formation of functional neural networks at synaptic and cellular levels. Involves discussion of primary literature. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 9.160 3-0-9 units
9.160 | Cellular Neurophysiology (New) |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:W. Xu term:G (Fall) description:Surveys the mechanisms of neuronal communication. Covers ion channels in excitable membrane, single cell computation, synaptic transmission, and synaptic plasticity. Correlates the properties of ion channels and synaptic transmission with their physiological function. Discusses the organizational principles for the formation of functional neural networks at synaptic and cellular levels. Involves discussion of primary literature. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Subject meets with 9.16 3-0-9 units
9.17 | Systems Neuroscience Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-17-systems-neuroscience-lab-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) prereq:9.40 or permission of instructor coreq:9.07 instructors:M. Wilson, M. Harnett term:U (Fall) textbook:[O&S] =  Oakley, Bruce, and Rollie Schafer. Experimental Neurobiology: A Laboratory Manual. University of Michigan Press, 1978. textbook:Hubel, David H. "Impulses, Synapses and Circuits." (PDF) Eye, Brain, and Vision. W. H. Freeman, 1995, pp. 12–31. textbook:Kolb, Bryan, and Ian Q. Whishaw. "How Do Neurons Convey Information?" Chapter 4 in Introduction to Brain and Behavior. Worth Publishers, 2000, pp 123–37.  description:Consists of a series of laboratories designed to give students experience with basic techniques for conducting systems neuroscience research. Includes sessions on anatomical, neurophysiological, and data acquisition and analysis techniques, and how these techniques are used to study nervous system function. Involves the use of experimental animals. Assignments include weekly preparation for lab sessions, two major lab reports and a series of basic computer programming tutorials (MATLAB). Instruction and practice in written communication provided.Enrollment limited.  2-4-6 units. Institute LAB
9.173 | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine |  | prereq:18.03 8.03 or permission of instructor instructors:A. Jasanoff term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: G (Spring) description:See description under subject 22.56[J] . Same subject as 20.483[J] , 22.56[J] , HST.561[J] 3-0-9 units
9.175 | Robotics |  | prereq:2.151 or permission of instructor instructors:J.-J. E. Slotine, H. Asada term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject 2.165[J] . Same subject as 2.165[J] 3-0-9 units
9.18 | Developmental Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-18-developmental-neurobiology-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate features:Assignments (no solutions) prereq:9.01 7.03 7.05 or permission of instructor term:U (Spring) textbook:Development of the Nervous System (Reh, Thomas A.; Harris, William A.; Sanes, Dan H.)  
9.181 | Developmental Neurobiology |  | prereq:9.011 or permission of instructor instructors:E. Nedivi, M. Heiman term:G (Spring) textbook:Development of the Nervous System (Reh, Thomas A.; Harris, William A.; Sanes, Dan H.)  description:Considers molecular control of neural specification, formation of neuronal connections, construction of neural systems, and the contributions of experience to shaping brain structure and function. Topics include: neural induction and pattern formation, cell lineage and fate determination, neuronal migration, axon guidance, synapse formation and stabilization, activity-dependent development and critical periods, development of behavior. In addition to final exam, analysis and presentation of research papers required for final grade. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. Same subject as 7.69[J] Subject meets with 7.49[J] , 9.18[J] 3-0-9 units
9.20 | Animal Behavior | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-20-animal-behavior-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate features:Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) prereq:9.00 instructors:G. E. Schneider term:U (Fall) description:Reviews studies of animal behavior to stress major ideas and principles, with emphasis on concepts developed in ethology and sociobiology. Examines foraging and feeding, defensive and aggressive behavior, courtship and reproduction, migration and navigation, as well as various social activities and communication. Considers inherited abilities, motivational systems and motor patterns, together with influences of various types of learning. Reviews both field and laboratory studies, and considers human behavior in the context of primate studies.  3-0-9 units. HASS-S
9.24 | Disorders and Diseases of the Nervous System |  | prereq:9.00 9.01 9.09[j] instructors:M. Sur term:U (Spring) description:Topics examined include regional functional anatomy of the CNS; brain systems and circuits; neurodevelopmental disorders including autism; neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia; neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's; autoimmune disorders such as multiple sclerosis; gliomas. Emphasis on diseases for which a molecular mechanism is understood. Diagnostic criteria, clinical and pathological findings, genetics, model systems, pathophysiology, and treatment are discussed for individual disorders and diseases.  3-0-9 units
9.26 | Principles and Applications of Genetic Engineering for Biotechnology and Neuroscience |  | prereq:7.28 7.32 or 20.020 9.01 or 9.09[j] instructors:F. Zhang term:U (Spring) description:Covers principles underlying current and future genetic engineering approaches, ranging from single cellular organisms to whole animals. Focuses on development and invention of technologies for engineering biological systems at the genomic level, and applications of engineered biological systems for medical and biotechnological needs, with particular emphasis on genetic manipulation of the nervous system. Design projects by students. Same subject as 20.205[J] 3-0-9 units
9.272 | Topics in Neural Signal Processing |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:E. N. Brown term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: G (Spring) description:Presents signal processing and statistical methods used to study neural systems and analyze neurophysiological data. Topics include state-space modeling formulated using the Bayesian Chapman-Kolmogorov system, theory of point processes, EM algorithm, Bayesian and sequential Monte Carlo methods. Applications include dynamic analyses of neural encoding, neural spike train decoding, studies of neural receptive field plasticity, algorithms for neural prosthetic control, EEG and MEG source localization. Students should know introductory probability theory and statistics. Alternate years. Same subject as HST.576[J] 3-0-9 units
9.28 | Current Topics in Developmental Neurobiology |  | prereq:none. coreq:9.18[j] instructors:E. Nedivi term:U (Spring) description:Considers recent advances in the field of developmental neurobiology based on primary research articles that address molecular control of neural specification, formation of neuronal connections, construction of neural systems, and the contributions of experience to shaping brain structure and function. Also considers new techniques and methodologies as applied to the field. Students critically analyze articles and prepare concise and informative presentations based on their content. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Requires class participation, presentations, and final exam.  3-0-12 units
9.285 | Neural Coding and Perception of Sound |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:B. Delgutte, M. C. Brown, J. McDermott, D. Polley term:G (Spring) description:See description under subject HST.723[J] . Same subject as HST.723[J] 3-1-8 units
9.301 | Neural Plasticity in Learning and Memory |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:S. Tonegawa, W. Quinn term:G (Spring) description:Examination of the role of neural plasticity during learning and memory of invertebrates and mammals. Detailed critical analysis of the current literature of molecular, cellular, genetic, electrophysiological, and behavioral studies. Student-directed presentations and discussions of original papers supplemented by introductory lectures.Juniors and seniors require instructor's permission. Same subject as 7.98[J] 3-0-6 units
9.31 | Neurobiology of Learning and Memory |  | prereq:9.01 instructors:M. Constantine-Paton term:U (Fall) description:Surveys the mechanisms supporting plasticity in neurons, focusing on how it contributes to learning in several systems. Examines cellular forms of associative plasticity, including long-term potentiation and depression, homeostatic plasticity, and depotentiation. Relates these phenomena to associative memory in animal systems and humans. Completion of 9.09[J] recommended.  4-0-8 units
9.32 | Genes, Circuits, and Behavior |  | prereq:9.09[j] 9.10 9.16 or 9.18[j] instructors:G. Feng term:U (Spring) description:Focuses on understanding molecular and cellular mechanisms of circuitry development, function and plasticity, and their relevance to normal and abnormal behaviors/psychiatric disorders. Highlights cutting-edge technologies for neuroscience research. Students build professional skills through presentations and critical evaluation of original research papers.  3-0-9 units
9.322 | Genetic Methods in Neurobiology |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:W. G. Quinn term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: G (Spring) description:Presents selected topics in which genetic analysis informs neurobiological issues, including action potential conduction and synaptic release in Drosophila, axon guidance in nematodes and Drosophila, olfaction and orienting behavior in nematodes. Studies hippocampal and cortical circuitry and function in mice, as well as genetically-determined and genetically-influenced human traits and diseases. Reviews methods such as mutagenesis, gene knockouts and transgene constructs, tissue-specific expression vectors, optically, chemically and thermally-inducible gene activation and inactivation. Same subject as 7.67[J] 3-0-6 units
9.33 | Your Brain: A User's Guide |  | prereq:none instructors:M. Constantine-Paton term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Fall) textbook:The Minder Brain: How Your Brain Keeps You Alive, Protects You from Danger, and Ensures That You Reproduce (Herbert, Joe)  description:Provides students with perspective on brain functions and behaviors of particular relevance to individuals their age. Using library databases, students conduct scholarly research and compare the attitudes conveyed in magazines and newspapers with facts from neurobiology textbooks, scientific reviews, and basic research articles. Each student presents and leads a discussion on a topic related to a behavior of his or her choosing.Preference to freshmen and non-Course 9 majors; limited to 17.  3-0-9 units. HASS-E
9.34 | Biomechanics and Neural Control of Movement |  | prereq:2.004 2.04a or permission of instructor instructors:N. Hogan term:G (Spring) textbook:Principles of Neural Science (Kandel, Eric R.; Schwartz, James H.; Jessell, Thomas M.; Siegelbaum, Steven A.; Hudspeth, A. J.)  description:See description under subject 2.183[J] . Same subject as 2.183[J] Subject meets with 2.184 3-0-9 units
9.35 | Perceptual Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-35-sensation-and-perception-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate features: prereq:9.00 9.01 or permission of instructor instructors:J. McDermott term:U (Spring) textbook:Sensation and Perception (Wolfe; Wolfe, Jeremy; Kluender, Keith; Levi, Dennis; Bartoshuk, Linda; Herz, Rachel; Klatzy, Roberta; Lederman, Susan)  description:Studies how the senses work and how physical stimuli are transformed into signals in the nervous system. Examines how the brain uses those signals to make inferences about the world, and uses illusions and demonstrations gain insight into those inferences. Emphasizes audition and vision, with some discussion of touch, taste, and smell. Provides experience with psychophysical methods.  4-0-8 units
9.357 | Current Topics in Vision Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-357-special-topics-in-vision-science-fall-2001 | level:Graduate features: prereq:permission of instructor instructors:E. H. Adelson term:G (Spring) description:Advanced seminar on issues of current interest in human and machine vision. Topics vary from year to year. Participants discuss current literature as well as their ongoing research.  2-0-7 units
9.40 | Introduction to Neural Computation |  | prereq:6.0002 9.01 instructors:M. Fee term:U (Spring) description:Introduces quantitative approaches to understanding brain and cognitive functions. Topics include mathematical description of neurons, the response of neurons to sensory stimuli, simple neuronal networks, statistical inference and decision making. Also covers foundational quantitative tools of data analysis in neuroscience: correlation, convolution, spectral analysis, principal components analysis. Mathematical concepts include simple differential equations and linear algebra.  4-0-8 units
9.41 | Research and Communication in Neuroscience and Cognitive Science |  | prereq:9.urg permission of instructor instructors:L. Schulz term:U (Fall) description:Emphasizes research and scientific communication. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Based on results of his/her UROP research, each student creates a full-length paper and a poster as part of an oral presentation at the end of the term. Other assignments include peer editing and reading/critiquing published research papers. Prior to starting class, students must have collected enough data from their UROP research projects to write a paper.Limited to juniors and seniors.  2-12-4 units
9.42 | The Brain and Its Interface with the Body (New) |  | prereq:7.28 9.09[j] or permission of instructor instructors:F. Zhang term:U (Spring) description:Covers a range of topics, such as brain-immune system interaction, the gut-brain axis, and bioengineering approaches for studying the brain and its interactions with different organs. Explores how these interactions may be involved in nervous system disease processes.  3-0-9 units
9.422 | Principles of Neuroengineering |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:E. S. Boyden, III term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: G (Fall) description:See description under subject MAS.881[J] . Same subject as 20.452[J] , MAS.881[J] Subject meets with 20.352 3-0-9 units
9.455 | Revolutionary Ventures: How to Invent and Deploy Transformative Technologies |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:J. Bonsen, J. Jacobson term:G (Fall) description:See description under subject MAS.883[J] . Same subject as 15.128[J] , 20.454[J] , MAS.883[J] 2-0-7 units
9.46 | Neuroscience of Morality |  | prereq:9.00 9.01 9.10 9.20 or 9.85 instructors:R. Saxe term:U (Fall) description:Advanced seminar that covers both classic and cutting-edge primary literature from psychology and the neuroscience of morality. Addresses questions about how the human brain decides which actions are morally right or wrong (including neural mechanisms of empathy and self-control), how such brain systems develop over childhood and differ across individuals and cultures, and how they are affected by brain diseases (such as psychopathy, autism, tumors, or addiction). Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided.Limited to 24.  3-0-9 units
9.472 | Neuroimaging Cells and Circuits |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:A. Jasanoff, P. T. So term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: G (Fall) description:Offers an introduction to imaging methods at the forefront of modern neurobiology. Emphasis is placed on in vivo imaging in the context of neural systems research. Specific topics covered include classical optics, fluorescence and fluorescent dyes, multiphoton microscopy, reflectance-based imaging methods, functional and anatomical magnetic resonance imaging, and molecular neuroimaging. Both applications and underlying principles are discussed, and lectures are supplemented by demonstrations of imaging techniques in the laboratory.Limited to 15. Same subject as 20.472[J] 3-0-9 units
9.48 | Philosophical Issues in Brain Science |  | prereq:none instructors:A. Byrne term:U (Fall) Not offered regularly; consult department description:See description under subject 24.08[J] . Same subject as 24.08[J] 3-0-9 units. HASS-H; CI-H
9.50 | Research in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:9.00 permission of instructor instructors:Consult L. Schulz term:U (Fall, Spring) description:Laboratory research in brain and cognitive science, using physiological, anatomical, pharmacological, developmental, behavioral, and computational methods. Each student carries out an experimental study under the direction of a member of the faculty. Project must be approved in advance by the faculty supervisor and the Director of the Undergraduate Program. Written presentation of results is required.  0-12-0 units
9.520 | Statistical Learning Theory and Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-520-statistical-learning-theory-and-applications-spring-2006 | level:Graduate features:Selected lecture notes prereq:6.867 6.041b 18.06 or permission of instructor instructors:T. Poggio, L. Rosasco term:G (Fall) textbook:Vapnik, V. The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1995. textbook:———. Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1998. textbook:Devroye, L., L. Gyorfi, and G. Lugosi. A Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Springer, 1997. textbook:Cristianini, N., and J. Shawe-Taylor. Introduction To Support Vector Machines. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000.  description:Provides students with the knowledge needed to use and develop advanced machine learning solutions to challenging problems. Covers foundations and recent advances of machine learning in the framework of statistical learning theory. Focuses on regularization techniques key to high-dimensional supervised learning. Starting from classical methods such as regularization networks and support vector machines, addresses state-of-the-art techniques based on principles such as geometry or sparsity, and discusses a variety of algorithms for supervised learning, feature selection, structured prediction, and multitask learning. Also focuses on unsupervised learning of data representations, with an emphasis on hierarchical (deep) architectures. Same subject as 6.860[J] 3-0-9 units
9.523 | Aspects of a Computational Theory of Intelligence |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:T. Poggio, S. Ullman, E. Hildreth term:G (Fall) description:Integrates neuroscience, cognitive and computer science to explore the nature of intelligence, how it is produced by the brain, and how it can be replicated in machines. Discusses an array of current research connected through an overarching theme of how it contributes to a computational account of how humans analyze dynamic visual imagery to understand objects and actions in the world. Same subject as 6.861[J] 3-0-9 units
9.54 | Computational Aspects of Biological Learning |  | prereq:9.40 instructors:T. Poggio, S. Ullman term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Fall) description:Takes a computational approach to learning in the brain by neurons and synapses. Examines supervised and unsupervised learning as well as possible biological substrates, including Hebb synapses and the related topics of Oja flow and principal components analysis. Discusses hypothetical computational primitives in the nervous system, and the implications for unsupervised learning algorithms underlying the development of tuning properties of cortical neurons. Also focuses on a broad class of biologically plausible learning strategies.  3-0-9 units
9.56 | Abnormal Language |  | prereq:24.900 or permission of instructor instructors:K. Wexler term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Fall) description:Introduction to the linguistic study of language pathology, concentrating on experimental approaches and theoretical explanations. Discussion of Specific Language Impairment, Down syndrome, William's syndrome, autism, normal aging, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, hemispherectomy, and aphasia. Focuses on the comparison of linguistic abilities among these syndromes, while drawing clear comparisons with first- and second-language acquisition. Topics include the lexicon, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics. Relates the lost linguistic abilities in these syndromes to properties of the brain. Same subject as 24.907[J] 3-0-9 units. HASS-S
9.583 | Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Data Acquisition and Analysis |  | prereq:18.05 18.06 or permission of instructor instructors:S. Whitfield-Gabrieli, J. Polimeni, A. Yendiki term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: G (Fall) description:See description under subject HST.583[J] . Same subject as HST.583[J] 2-3-7 units
9.59 | Laboratory in Psycholinguistics |  | prereq:9.00 or 24.900 instructors:E. Gibson term:U (Spring) textbook:The Foundations of Statistics: A Simulation-Based Approach (Vasishth, Shravan; Broe, Michael)  description:Hands-on experience designing, conducting, analyzing, and presenting experiments on the structure and processing of human language. Focuses on constructing, conducting, analyzing, and presenting an original and independent experimental project of publishable quality. Develops skills in reading and writing scientific research reports in cognitive science, including evaluating the methods section of a published paper, reading and understanding graphical displays and statistical claims about data, and evaluating theoretical claims based on experimental data. Instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. Same subject as 24.905[J] 3-3-6 units. Institute LAB
9.601 | Language Acquisition I |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:L. Koring term:G (Fall) description:Lectures, reading, and discussion of current theory and data concerning the psychology and biology of language acquisition. Emphasizes learning of syntax, semantics, and morphology, together with some discussion of phonology, and especially research relating grammatical theory and learnability theory to empirical studies of children. Same subject as 24.949[J] 3-0-6 units
9.611 | Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge |  | prereq:6.034 instructors:R. C. Berwick term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: G (Fall) description:See description under subject 6.863[J] . Same subject as 6.863[J] 3-3-6 units
9.63 | Laboratory in Visual Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-63-laboratory-in-visual-cognition-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) prereq:9.00 instructors:P. Sinha term:U (Fall) textbook:McBurney, Donald H., and Theresa L. White. Research Methods. 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Thomson/Wadsworth, 2004, chapters 5 and 8. textbook:Palmer, Stephen E. Vision Science: Photons to Phenomenology. 1st ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, pp. 668-672. textbook:McBurney, Donald H., and Theresa L. White. Research Methods. 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Thomson/Wadsworth, 2004, chapters 5, 7, 8, and 11. textbook:Wolfe, Jeremy M. "Guidance of Visual Search by Preattentive Information." In Neurobiology of Attention. Edited by Itti, L, Rees, G. and John K. Tsotsos, Maryland Heights, MO: Academic Press, 2005. textbook:Bruce, Vicki. In the Eye of the Beholder: The Science of Face Perception. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998.  description:Teaches principles of experimental methods in human visual perception and attention, including how to design, conduct, analyze, and present experiments in visual cognition. Combines lectures and hands-on experimental exercises. Requires two experimental projects, at least one of which is conducted independently; the other may be done as part of a team. Assignments include individual reports on experimental designs, written articles, and presentations critiquing three team experiments observed in class. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Experience with MATLAB is recommended.Limited to 16.  2-1-9 units. Institute LAB
9.65 | Cognitive Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-65-cognitive-processes-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate features:Selected lecture notes prereq:9.00 instructors:M. C. Potter term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Spring) textbook:Cognition: Exploring the Science of the Mind (Reisberg, Daniel)  description:Introduction to human information processing and learning. Topics include the nature of mental representation and processing, memory and learning, pattern recognition, attention, imagery and mental codes, concepts and prototypes, as well as reasoning and problem-solving.  3-0-9 units. HASS-S
9.66 | Computational Cognitive Science |  | prereq:6.008 6.036 6.041b 9.40 18.05 or permission of instructor instructors:J. Tenenbaum term:U (Fall) description:Introduction to computational theories of human cognition. Focus on principles of inductive learning and inference, and the representation of knowledge. Computational frameworks covered include Bayesian and hierarchical Bayesian models; probabilistic graphical models; nonparametric statistical models and the Bayesian Occam's razor; sampling algorithms for approximate learning and inference; and probabilistic models defined over structured representations such as first-order logic, grammars, or relational schemas. Applications to understanding core aspects of cognition, such as concept learning and categorization, causal reasoning, theory formation, language acquisition, and social inference. Graduate students complete a final project. Same subject as 6.804[J] Subject meets with 9.660 3-0-9 units
9.660 | Computational Cognitive Science |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:J. Tenenbaum term:G (Fall) description:Introduction to computational theories of human cognition. Focuses on principles of inductive learning and inference, and the representation of knowledge. Computational frameworks include Bayesian and hierarchical Bayesian models, probabilistic graphical models, nonparametric statistical models and the Bayesian Occam's razor, sampling algorithms for approximate learning and inference, and probabilistic models defined over structured representations such as first-order logic, grammars, or relational schemas. Applications to understanding core aspects of cognition, such as concept learning and categorization, causal reasoning, theory formation, language acquisition, and social inference. Graduate students complete a final project. Subject meets with 6.804[J] , 9.66[J] 3-0-9 units
9.71 | Functional MRI Investigations of the Human Brain | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-71-functional-mri-of-high-level-vision-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate features: prereq:9.07 18.05 or permission of instructor instructors:N. G. Kanwisher term:U (Fall) textbook:Huettel, Scott A., Allen W. Song, and Gregory McCarthy. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. textbook:Farah, Martha J. Visual Agnosia. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004. textbook:———. The Cognitive Neuroscience of Vision. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, 2000. textbook:Kanwisher, N. "The Ventral Visual Object Pathway in Humans: Evidence from fMRI." In The Visual Neurosciences. Edited by Leo M. Chalupa and John S. Werner. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. textbook:Culham, J. C. "Functional Neuroimaging: Experimental Design and Analysis." In Handbook of Functional Neuroimaging of Cognition Book. Edited by R. Cabeza and A. Kingstone. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 2001, pp. 53-82. textbook:Ullman, S. "Approaches to Visual Recognition." In Functional Neuroimaging of Visual Cognition. Edited by Nancy Kanwisher and John Duncan. Oxford; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Tanaka, J. W., E. McKone, P. Martini, and K. Nakayama. "Isolating Holistic Processing in Faces (And Perhaps Objects)." Chapter 4 in Perception of Faces, Objects, and Scenes: Analytic and Holistic Processes. Edited by Mary A. Peterson and Gillian Rhodes. Oxford; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:Spellman, B. A., J. DeLoache, and R. A. Bjork. "Making Claims in Papers and Talks." In Critical Thinking in Psychology. Edited by R. J. Sternberg, H. L. Roediger III, and D. F. Halpern. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:Freiwald, W. A., and N. Kanwisher. "Visual Selective Attention: insights from Brain Imaging and Neurophysiology." In The Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Michael S. Gazzaniga. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004.  description:Covers design and interpretation of fMRI experiments, and the relationship between fMRI and other techniques. Focuses on localization of cognitive function in the human brain. Students write papers and give presentations, explain and critique published papers, and design but do not conduct their own fMRI experiments. Upon completion, students should be able to understand and critique published fMRI papers and have a good grasp of what is known about localization of cognitive function from fMRI. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided.Limited to 12.  3-0-9 units
9.77 | Computational Perception |  | prereq:9.00 9.40 9.35 or 9.65 instructors:E. Adelson term:Acad Year 2016-2017: Not offered Acad Year 2017-2018: U (Spring) description:Begins with a review of the experimental paradigms, findings and theories used to evaluate the capabilities and limits of human visual perception. Assesses how knowledge of human perception may be used to guide machine vision systems. Second part of the subject focuses on models in computational perception. Describes how computer vision systems can perform image analysis and synthesis; face, object and scene perception; texture synthesis, segmentation, and navigation. Introduces various simulation methods. A MATLAB-based project in computational perception is required.Limited to 8.  3-0-9 units
9.822 | Psychology and Economics |  | prereq:none instructors:D. Prelec term:G (Spring) textbook:Choices, Values, and Frames (Kahneman, Daniel (Editor); Tversky, Amos (Editor))  description:See description under subject 14.137[J] . Same subject as 14.137[J] 4-0-8 units
9.85 | Infant and Early Childhood Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-85-infant-and-early-childhood-cognition-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) prereq:9.00 instructors:L. Schulz term:U (Fall) textbook:Piaget, Jean. "Piaget's Theory." In Childhood Cognitive Development: The Essential Readings. Edited by Kang Lee. Wiley-Blackwell, 2000, pp. 31–47. textbook:Flavell, John H. The Developmental Psychology of Jean Piaget. With a foreword by Jean Piaget. Van Nostrand Reinhold Inc., 1963, pp. 51–71. textbook:Gopnik, Alison M., and Andrew N. Meltzoff. "The Scientist as Child." In Words, Thoughts, and Theories. The MIT Press, 1996, pp. 13–47. textbook:Chomsky, Noam, and Jerry Fodor. "The Inductivist Fallacy." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Harvard University Press, 1980, pp. 255–75. textbook:Flavell, John H., Patricia H. Miller, and Scott A. Miller. "Infant Cognition." In Cognitive Development. 4th ed. Pearson, 2001, pp. 29–62. textbook:Carey, Susan. "Some Preliminaries." Chapter 1 in The Origins of Concepts. Oxford University Press, 2011. textbook:Woodward, Amanda L., Jessica A. Sommerville, and José J. Guajardo. "How Infants make Sense of Intentional Action." In Intentions and Intentionality: Foundations of Social Cognition. Edited by Bertram F. Malle, Louis J. Moses, and Dare A. Baldwin. The MIT Press, 2001, pp. 149–69. textbook:Cattell, Ray. "Do We Teach Children to Speak?" Chapter 3 in Children's Language: Consensus and Controversy. Cassell Academic, 2000, pp. 30–43. textbook:———. "Do We Help Children to Speak?" Chapter 7 in Children's Language: Consensus and Controversy. Cassell Academic, 2000, pp. 104–28.  description:Introduction to cognitive development focusing on childrens' understanding of objects, agents, and causality. Develops a critical understanding of experimental design. Discusses how developmental research might address philosophical questions about the origins of knowledge, appearance and reality, and the problem of other minds. Provides instruction and practice in written communication as necessary to research in cognitive science (including critical reviews of journal papers, a literature review and an original research proposal), as well as instruction and practice in oral communication in the form of a poster presentation of a journal paper.  3-0-9 units. HASS-S
9.901 | Responsible Conduct in Science |  | prereq:none instructors:M. Wilson term:G (IAP) description:Provides instruction and dialogue on practical ethical issues relating to the responsible conduct of human and animal research in the brain and cognitive sciences. Specific emphasis on topics relevant to young researchers including data handling, animal and human subjects, misconduct, mentoring, intellectual property, and publication. Preliminary assigned readings and initial faculty lecture followed by discussion groups of four to five students each. A short written summary of the discussions submitted at the end of each class.See IAP Guide for registration information.  1-0-1 units
9.91 | Independent Study in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:9.00 and any other two subjects in brain and cognitive sciences permission of instructor instructors:Consult Staff term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring) description:Individual study of a topic under the direction of a member of the faculty.  Units arranged
9.919 | Teaching Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, Spring) description:For teaching assistants in Brain and Cognitive Sciences, in cases where teaching assignment is approved for academic credit by the department.  Units arranged
9.921 | Research in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Guided research under the sponsorship of individual members of the faculty. Ordinarily restricted to candidates for the doctoral degree in Course 9.  Units arranged
9.941 | Graduate Thesis Proposal |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, Spring, Summer) description:Students submit written proposals for thesis according to stated deadlines.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
9.95 | Research Topics in Neuroscience |  | prereq:none instructors:P. H. Schiller term:U (IAP) description:Lecture series that highlights faculty research in various fields of neuroscience. Each of the six lectures focuses on a specific area of brain research, delineating issues, methods, and findings pertinent to the topic. Exam administered during seventh and final class session.Pre-register on WebSIS; must attend first class.  1-0-0 units
9.97 | Introduction to Neuroanatomy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-97-introduction-to-neuroanatomy-january-iap-2003 | level:Undergraduate features: prereq:none instructors:R. Ellis-Behnke term:U (IAP) description:Intensive introduction to neuroanatomy that consists of lectures, demonstrations, and interactive laboratories, including a brain dissection. No prior knowledge of neuroanatomy required, although general knowledge of brain structures is helpful. Pre-register on WebSIS; must attend first class.Limited to 100.  1-0-0 units
9.S51 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:9.00 and any other two subjects in brain and cognitive sciences instructors:Consult Staff term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring) Not offered regularly; consult department description:Undergraduate study in brain and cognitive sciences; covers material not offered in regular curriculum.  Units arranged
9.S52 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:9.00 and any other two subjects in brain and cognitive sciences instructors:Consult Staff term:U (Spring) description:Undergraduate study in brain and cognitive sciences; covers material not offered in regular curriculum.  Units arranged
9.S911-9.S917 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring) description:Advanced graduate study in brain and cognitive sciences; covers material not offered in regular curriculum. 9.S911 is graded P/D/F.  Units arranged
9.S92 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:9.00 instructors:Consult Staff term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring) description:Undergraduate study in brain and cognitive sciences; covers material not offered in regular curriculum.  Units arranged
9.S93-9.S99 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences |  | prereq:none instructors:Staff term:U (IAP) description:For undergraduate study in brain and cognitive sciences during Independent Activities Period; covers material not offered in regular curriculum. See IAP Guide for details.  Units arranged [P/D/F]
9.THG | Graduate Thesis |  | prereq:permission of instructor instructors:Staff term:G (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Program of research leading to the writing of a Ph.D. thesis; to be arranged by the student and an appropriate MIT faculty member.  Units arranged
9.UR | Undergraduate Research |  | prereq:none term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) 
9.URG | Undergraduate Research |  | prereq:none instructors:Consult Staff term:U (Fall, IAP, Spring, Summer) description:Individual participation in an ongoing research project.  Units arranged
