EE100 | The Electrical Engineering Profession | http://EE100.stanford.edu | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI) description:Lectures/discussions on topics of importance to the electrical engineering professional. Continuing education, professional societies, intellectual property and patents, ethics, entrepreneurial engineering, and engineering management.
EE101A | Circuits I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE101A | instructors:Lee, T. (PI); Huynh, K. (TA); McCarthy, S. (TA); Mehdian, S. (TA); Padovani, J. (TA) description:Introduction to circuit modeling and analysis. Topics include creating the models of typical components in electronic circuits and simplifying non-linear models for restricted ranges of operation (small signal model); and using network theory to solve linear and non-linear circuits under static and dynamic operations. Prerequisite: ENGR40 or ENGR40M is useful but not strictly required.
EE101B | Circuits II | http://EE101B.stanford.edu | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI) description:Continuation of EE101A. Introduction to circuit design for modern electronic systems. Modeling and analysis of analog gain stages, frequency response, feedback. Filtering and analog¿to¿digital conversion. Fundamentals of circuit simulation. Prerequisites: EE101A, EE102A. Recommended: CME102.
EE102A | Signal Processing and Linear Systems I | http://EE102A.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, J. (PI); Gibbons, E. (TA); Guignard, L. (TA) description:Concepts and tools for continuous- and discrete-time signal and system analysis with applications in signal processing, communications, and control. Mathematical representation of signals and systems. Linearity and time invariance. System impulse and step responses. System frequency response. Frequency-domain representations: Fourier series and Fourier transforms. Filtering and signal distortion. Time/frequency sampling and interpolation. Continuous-discrete-time signal conversion and quantization. Discrete-time signal processing. Prerequisite: MATH 53 or CME 102.
EE102B | Signal Processing and Linear Systems II | http://EE102B.stanford.edu | instructors:Goldsmith, A. (PI) description:Continuation of EE 102A. Concepts and tools for continuous- and discrete-time signal and system analysis with applications in communications, signal processing and control. Analog and digital modulation and demodulation. Sampling, reconstruction, decimation and interpolation. Finite impulse response filter design. Discrete Fourier transforms, applications in convolution and spectral analysis. Laplace transforms, applications in circuits and feedback control. Z transforms, applications in infinite impulse response filter design. Prerequisite: EE 102A.
EE103 | Introduction to Matrix Methods (CME 103) | http://EE103.stanford.edu | instructors:Boyd, S. (PI); Hong, J. (GP) description:Introduction to applied linear algebra with emphasis on applications. Vectors, norm, and angle; linear independence and orthonormal sets. Matrices, left and right inverses, QR factorization. Least- squares and model fitting, regularization and cross-validation, time-series prediction, and other examples. Constrained least-squares; applications to least-norm reconstruction, optimal control, and portfolio optimization. Newton methods and nonlinear least-squares. Prerequisites: MATH 51 or CME 100.
EE107 | Networked Systems | http://EE107.stanford.edu | instructors:Katti, S. (PI) description:Networked embedded systems are often hidden from our view, but they are a key component that enables our modern society. Embedded systems bridge our physical world with powerful digital measurement and control systems. Applications of today's embedded systems range from stabilization in drones authentication in credit cards, and even temperature control in toasters. In this class, students will learn about how to build a networked embedded system from the ground up. The lectures will focus on the key enabling components of embedded systems, including: Clocks, GPIO, Interrupts, Busses, Amplifiers, Regulators, Power supplies, ADC/DAC, DMA, andnStorage. The goal of the class is to familiarize the students with these components such that they can build their own embedded systems in devices. The projects will be centered around building a portable power monitor device that enables software developers to monitor the power consumption of their applications running on smartphones. At the end of the class they will use the power monitor they built to observe the power consumption of their favorite apps and they will write a public blog entry documenting the opportunities that exist for improvement.  Prerequisites: EE 102A or ENGR 40M.
EE108 | Digital System Design | http://EE108.stanford.edu | instructors:Mitra, S. (PI); Prabala, R. (GP) description:Digital circuit, logic, and system design. Digital representation of information. CMOS logic circuits. Combinational logic design. Logic building blocks, idioms, and structured design. Sequential logic design and timing analysis. Clocks and synchronization. Finite state machines. Microcode control. Digital system design. Control and datapath partitioning.  Lab.  Undergraduates must enroll for 4 units.  *In Autumn, enrollment preference is given to EE majors.  Formerly EE 108A.
EE109 | Digital Systems Design Lab | http://EE109.stanford.edu | instructors:Olukotun, O. (PI) description:The design of integrated digital systems encompassing both customized software and hardware. Software/hardware design tradeoffs. Algorithm design for pipelining and parallelism. System latency and throughput tradeoffs. FPGA optimization techniques. Integration with external systems and smart devices. Firmware configuration and embedded system considerations. Enrollment limited to 25;  preference to graduating seniors. Prerequisites: 108B, and CS 106B or X.
EE114 | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design (EE 214A) | http://EE114.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Differential circuits, frequency response, and feedback will also be covered. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Undergraduates must take EE 114 for 4 units.  Prerequisite: 101B. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE116 | Semiconductor Device Physics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE116 | instructors:Pop, E. (PI) description:The fundamental operation of semiconductor devices and overview of applications. The physical principles of semiconductors, both silicon and compound materials; operating principles and device equations for junction devices (diodes, bipolar transistor, photo-detectors). Introduction to quantum effects and band theory of solids. Recommended corequisites: EE 65 and EE 101B. Non-EE majors are encouraged to take ENGR 40 before EE 116.
EE118 | Introduction to Mechatronics (ME 210) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE118 | instructors:Gumerlock, K. (PI); Kenny, T. (PI); Chauhan, V. (TA); Haksar, R. (TA); Lin, A. (TA); Niedziela, K. (TA); Pope, M. (TA) description:Technologies involved in mechatronics (intelligent electro-mechanical systems), and techniques to apply this technology to mecatronic system design. Topics include: electronics (A/D, D/A converters, op-amps, filters, power devices); software program design, event-driven programming; hardware and DC stepper motors, solenoids, and robust sensing. Large, open-ended team project. Prerequisites: ENGR 40, CS 106, or equivalents.
EE122A | Analog Circuits Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE122A | instructors:Kovacs, G. (PI) description:The course covers practical applications of mixed-signal circuits, including simple amplifiers, filters (passive, op-amp, switched-capacitor and digital-signal-processor-based), oscillators, power supplies, sensors and interface (input/output) circuits. Practical design skills, computer-aided design, and circuit fabrication and debugging are core topics. The design process is learned through proposing, designing, simulating, building, debugging, and demonstrating a substantial and novel team project. Radio frequency and largely digital projects not suitable for EE 122. Prerequisite: basic electronics laboratory experience with solid working knowledge of circuit analysis, Fourier and Laplace methods.
EE122B | Introduction to Biomedical Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE122B | instructors:Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI) description:EE122B is a laboratory course covering the design and realization of key components and architectures of modern biomedical electronics systems, their application in clinical and research measurements, and practical matters in their safe reduction to practice. Material in each topic area begins with an overview of the underlying physiology. Details are presented beginning with the molecular, cellular, organ-level origins of the biosignals, followed by the relevant transduction principles, nature of the signals (amplitude, frequency spectrum, etc.), and their processing and clinical use. Specific engineering topics include safety in biomedical instruments, fundamentals of analog/digital conversion and filtering techniques for biosignals, typical transducers (biopotential, electrochemical, temperature, pressure, acoustic, movement), applications (cardiovascular medicine, neurology, pulmonology, etc.) and interfacing circuits. Prerequisite: EE122A or equivalent hands-on mixed-signal design experience and solid working knowledge of EE122A topics (see course description).
EE124 | Introduction to Neuroelectrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE124 | instructors:Kao, J. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Gupta, T. (TA) description:Fundamental properties of electrical activity in neurons, technology for measuring and altering neural activity, and operating principles of modern neurological and neural prosthetic medical systems. Topics: action potential generation and propagation, neuro-MEMS and measurement systems, experimental design and statistical data analysis, information encoding and decoding, clinical diagnostic systems, and fully-implantable neural prosthetic systems design. Prerequisite: EE 101A and EE 102A.
EE133 | Analog Communications Design Laboratory (EE 233) | http://EE133.stanford.edu | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI); Bennett, M. (TA); Mendoza, M. (TA) description:Design, testing, and applications. Amplitude modulation (AM) using multiplier circuits. Frequency modulation (FM) based on discrete oscillator and integrated modulator circuits such as voltage-controlled oscillators (VCOs). Phased-lock loop (PLL) techniques, characterization of key parameters, and their applications. Practical aspects of circuit implementations. Labs involve building and characterization of AM and FM modulation/demodulation circuits and subsystems. Enrollment limited to 30 undergraduates and coterminal EE students. Prerequisite: EE101B. Undergraduate students enroll in EE133 and Graduate students enroll in EE233. Recommended: EE114/214A.
EE134 | Introduction to Photonics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE134 | instructors:Bowden, A. (PI) description:Photonics, optical components, and fiber optics. Conceptual and mathematical tools for design and analysis of optical communication, sensor and imaging systems. Experimental characterization of semiconductor lasers, optical fibers, photodetectors, receiver circuitry, fiber optic links, optical amplifiers, and optical sensors. Class project on confocal microscopy or other method of sensing or analyzing biometric data. Laboratory experiments. Prerequisite: EE 42 and EE 102A or equivalent.
EE142 | Engineering Electromagnetics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE142 | instructors:Fan, J. (PI) description:Introduction to electromagnetism and Maxwell¿s equations in static and dynamic regimes.  Electrostatics and magnetostatics: Gauss¿s, Coulomb¿s, Faraday¿s, Ampere's, Biot-Savart's laws.  Electric and magnetic potentials. Boundary conditions. Electric and magnetic field energy.  Electrodynamics: Wave equation; Electromagnetic waves; Phasor form of Maxwell¿s equations.nSolution of the wave equation in 1D free space: Wavelength, wave-vector, forward and backward propagating plane waves.Poynting¿s theorem. Propagation in lossy media, skin depth. Reflection and refraction at planar boundaries, total internal reflection. Solutions of wave equation for various 1D-3D problems: Electromagnetic resonators, waveguides periodic media, transmission lines. Formerly EE 141.  Pre-requisites: Phys 43 or EE 42, CME 100, CME 102 (recommended)
EE14N | Things about Stuff | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE14N | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The stories behind disruptive inventions such as the telegraph, telephone, wireless, television, transistor, and chip are as important as the inventions themselves, for they elucidate broadly applicable scientific principles. Focus is on studying consumer devices; projects include building batteries, energy conversion devices and semiconductors from pocket change. Students may propose topics and projects of interest to them. The trajectory of the course is determined in large part by the students themselves.
EE151 | Sustainable Energy Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE151 | instructors:Hesselink, L. (PI) description:Energy demand is expected to grow by 30% by 2025, while at the same time the European Union is demanding a carbon footprint at 1990 levels. We examine energy flow in the US and Europe, and deduce from it a strategy for sustainable growth. Potential solutions include distributed small scale networked energy generation, solar energy, wind and water, as well as nuclear energy.  A systems perspective allows optimization.  Fundamental concepts will be demonstrated in class through hands-on experiments.
EE153 | Power Electronics (EE 253) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE153 | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:Addressing the energy challenges of today and the environmental challenges of the future will require efficient energy conversion techniques. This course will discuss the circuits used to efficiently convert ac power to dc power, dc power from one voltage level to another, and dc power to ac power. The components used in these circuits (e.g., diodes, transistors, capacitors, inductors) will also be covered in detail to highlight their behavior in a practical implementation. A lab will be held with the class where students will obtain hands on experience with power electronic circuits. Formerly EE 292J. Prerequisite: EE 101B.
EE155 | Green Electronics (EE 255) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE155 | instructors:Dally, B. (PI) description:Many green technologies including hybrid cars, photovoltaic energy systems, efficient power supplies, and energy-conserving control systems have at their heart intelligent, high-power electronics.  This course examines this technology and uses green-tech examples to teach the engineering principles of modeling, optimization, analysis, simulation, and design.  Topics include power converter topologies, periodic steady-state analysis, control, motors and drives, photovol-taic systems, and design of magnetic components.  The course involves a hands-on laboratory and a substantial final project.  Formerly EE 152. Required: EE101B, EE102A, EE108.  Recommended:  ENGR40 or EE122A.
EE168 | Introduction to Digital Image Processing | http://EE168.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI); Duraisamy, P. (TA) description:Computer processing of digital 2-D and 3-D data, combining theoretical material with implementation of computer algorithms. Topics: properties of digital images, design of display systems and algorithms, time and frequency representations, filters, image formation and enhancement, imaging systems, perspective, morphing, and animation applications. Instructional computer lab exercises implement practical algorithms. Final project consists of computer animations incorporating techniques learned in class. Prerequisite: Matlab programming.
EE169 | Introduction to Bioimaging | http://EE169.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Bioimaging is important for both clinical medicine, and medical research.  This course will provide a introduction to several of the major imaging modalities, using a signal processing perspective. The course will start with an introduction to multi-dimensional Fourier transforms, and image quality metrics.  It will then study projection imaging systems (projection X-Ray), backprojection based systems (CT, PET, and SPECT), systems that use beam forming (ultrasound), and systems that use Fourier encoding (MRI). Prerequisites: EE102A, EE102B
EE178 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis | http://EE178.stanford.edu | instructors:Montanari, A. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI) description:Introduction to probability and statistics and their role in modeling and analyzing real world phenomena. Events, sample space, and probability. Discrete random variables, probability mass functions, independence and conditional probability, expectation and conditional expectation. Continuous random variables, probability density functions, independence and expectation, derived densities. Transforms, moments, sums of independent random variables. Simple random processes. Limit theorems. Introduction to statistics: significance, estimation and detection. Prerequisites: basic calculus.
EE17N | Engineering the Micro and Nano Worlds: From Chips to Genes | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE17N | instructors:Pease, R. (PI); Provine, J. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The first part is hands-on micro- and nano-fabrication including the Stanford Nanofabrication Facility (SNF) and the Stanford Nanocharacterization Laboratory (SNL) and field trips to local companies and other research centers to illustrate the many applications; these include semiconductor integrated circuits ('chips'), DNA microarrays, microfluidic bio-sensors and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). The second part is to create, design, propose and execute a project. Most of the grade will be based on the project. By the end of the course you will, of course, be able to read critically a New York Times article on nanotechnology. More importantly you will have experienced the challenge (and fun) of designing, carrying out and presenting your own experimental project. As a result you will be better equipped to choose your major. This course can complement (and differs from) the seminars offered by Profs Philip Wong and Hari Manoharan in that it emphasizes laboratory work and an experimental student-designed project. Prerequisites: high-school physics.
EE180 | Digital Systems Architecture | http://EE180.stanford.edu | instructors:Olukotun, O. (PI); Kehoe, G. (TA); Prabhakar, R. (TA) description:The design of processor-based digital systems. Instruction sets, addressing modes, data types. Assembly language programming, low-level data structures, introduction to operating systems and compilers. Processor microarchitecture, microprogramming, pipelining. Memory systems and caches. Input/output, interrupts, buses and DMA. System design implementation alternatives, software/hardware tradeoffs. Labs involve the design of processor subsystems and processor-based embedded systems. Formerly EE 108B.  Prerequisite: CS107 (required) and EE108 (recommended but not required).
EE190 | Special Studies or Projects in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE190 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member. Individual or team activities involve lab experimentation, design of devices or systems, or directed reading. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE191 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Carpenter, D. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Huang, K. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lauben, D. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Moslehi, M. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. If a letter grade given on the basis of required written report or examination is not appropriate, enroll in 190. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE191A | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191A | instructors: description:EE191A is part of the Accelerated Calculus for Engineers program. Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. EE 191A counts as a Math one unit seminar course: it is this unit that constitutes the ACE program.
EE191W | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering (WIM) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE191W | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:WIM-version of EE 191.  For EE students using special studiesn(e.g., honors project, independent research project) to satisfy thenwriting-in-major requirement.  A written report that has gone through revision with an advisor is required.  An advisor from the Writing Center is recommended.
EE203 | The Entrepreneurial Engineer | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE203 | instructors:Melen, R. (PI) description:Seminar. For prospective entrepreneurs with an engineering background. Contributions made to the business world by engineering graduates. Speakers include Stanford and other engineering and M.B.A. graduates who have founded large and small companies in nearby communities. Contributions from EE faculty and other departments including Law, Business, and MS&E.May be repeated for credit.
EE204 | Business Management for Electrical Engineers and Computer Scientists | http://EE204.stanford.edu | instructors:Gibbons, F. (PI) description:For graduate students with little or no business experience. The class is designed to provide students with the opportunity to learn about the fundamental activities of businesses: Identifying new markets, developing successful products, marketing and selling, building and managing teams, and measuring results. Learning about these activities is accomplished through case studies. The cases are chosen from the technology sector including consumer electronics, semiconductor, software, consulting services, and e-commerce. Understanding the activities of business will provide engineers, scientists, and educators with a broader perspective on how to contribute to their organizations and achieve their personal career. Prerequisite: graduate standing.
EE204S | Business Management for Electrical Engineers and Computer Scientists | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE204S | instructors:Gibbons, F. (PI) description:For SCPD students including NDOs; see EE204 for description.
EE212 | Integrated Circuit Fabrication Processes | http://EE212.stanford.edu | instructors:Plummer, J. (PI) description:For students interested in the physical bases and practical methods of silicon VLSI chip fabrication, or the impact of technology on device and circuit design, or intending to pursue doctoral research involving the use of Stanford's Nanofabrication laboratory. Process simulators illustrate concepts. Topics: principles of integrated circuit fabrication processes, physical and chemical models for crystal growth, oxidation, ion implantation, etching, deposition, lithography, and back-end processing. Required for 410.
EE213 | Digital MOS Integrated Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE213 | instructors: description:Looks a little more deeply at how digital circuits operate, what makes a gate digital, and how to "cheat" to improve performance or power. To aid this analysis we create a number of different models for MOS transistors and choose the simplest one that can explain our the circuit's operation, using both hand and computer analysis. We explore static, dynamic, pulse-mode, and current mode logic, and show how they are are used in SRAM design. Topics include sizing for min delay, noise and noise margins, power dissipation. The class uses memory design (SRAM) as a motivating example. DRAM and EEPROM design issues are also covered.  Formerly EE 313.  Prerequisites: EE 101B, EE 108. Recommended: EE 271.
EE214A | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design (EE 114) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE214A | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Differential circuits, frequency response, and feedback will also be covered. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Undergraduates must take EE 114 for 4 units.  Prerequisite: 101B. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE214B | Advanced Analog Integrated Circuit Design | http://EE214B.stanford.edu | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI); Bankman, D. (TA) description:Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits in advanced MOS and bipolar technologies. Device operation and compact modeling in support of circuit simulations needed for design. Emphasis on quantitative evaluations of performance using hand calculations and circuit simulations; intuitive approaches to design. Analytical and approximate treatments of noise and distortion; analysis and design of feedback circuits. Design of archetypal analog blocks for networking and communications such as broadband gain stages and transimpedance amplifiers. Prerequisites: EE114/214A.
EE216 | Principles and Models of Semiconductor Devices | http://EE216.stanford.edu | instructors:Harris, J. (PI); Jia, J. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Lu, C. (TA) description:Carrier generation, transport, recombination, and storage in semiconductors. Physical principles of operation of the p-n junction, heterojunction, metal semiconductor contact, bipolar junction transistor, MOS capacitor, MOS and junction field-effect transistors, and related optoelectronic devices such as CCDs, solar cells, LEDs, and detectors. First-order device models that reflect physical principles and are useful for integrated-circuit analysis and design. Prerequisite: 116 or equivalent.
EE21N | What is Nanotechnology? | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE21N | instructors:Wong, H. (PI) description:Nanotechnology is an often used word and it means many things to different people. Scientists and Engineers have some notion of what nanotechnology is, societal perception may be entirely different. In this course, we start with the classic paper by Richard Feynman ("There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom"), which laid down the challenge to the nanotechnologists. Then we discuss two classic books that offer a glimpse of what nanotechnology is: Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology by Eric Drexler, and Prey by Michael Crichton. Drexler's thesis sparked the imagination of what nano machinery might do, whereas Crichton's popular novel channeled the public's attention to this subject by portraying a disastrous scenario of a technology gone astray. We will use the scientific knowledge to analyze the assumptions and predictions of these classic works. We will draw upon the latest research advances to illustrate the possibilities and impossibilities of nanotechnology.
EE222 | Applied Quantum Mechanics I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE222 | instructors:Miller, D. (PI) description:Emphasis is on applications in modern devices and systems. Topics include: Schrödinger's equation, eigenfunctions and eigenvalues, solutions of simple problems including quantum wells and tunneling, quantum harmonic oscillator, coherent states, operator approach to quantum mechanics, Dirac notation, angular momentum, hydrogen atom, calculation techniques including matrix diagonalization, perturbation theory, variational method,  and time-dependent perturbation theory with applications to optical absorption, nonlinear optical coefficients, and Fermi's golden rule. Prerequisites: MATH 52 and 53, PHYSICS 65 (or PHYSICS 43 and 45).
EE223 | Applied Quantum Mechanics II | http://EE223.stanford.edu | instructors:Miller, D. (PI); Landreman, P. (TA); Morris, T. (TA) description:Continuation of 222, including more advanced topics: quantum mechanics of crystalline materials, methods for one-dimensional problems, spin, systems of identical particles (bosons and fermions), introductory quantum optics (electromagnetic field quantization, coherent states), fermion annihilation and creation operators, interaction of different kinds of particles (spontaneous emission, optical absorption, and stimulated emission). Quantum information and interpretation of quantum mechanics. Other topics in electronics, optoelectronics, optics, and quantum information science. Prerequisite: 222.
EE225 | Biochips and Medical Imaging (MATSCI 382, SBIO 225) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE225 | instructors:Wang, S. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); Gani, A. (TA) description:The course covers state-of-the-art and emerging bio-sensors, bio-chips, imaging modalities, and nano-therapies which will be studied in the context of human physiology including the nervous system, circulatory system and immune system. Medical diagnostics will be divided into bio-chips (in-vitro diagnostics) and medical and molecular imaging (in-vivo imaging). In-depth discussion on cancer and cardiovascular diseases and the role of diagnostics and nano-therapies.
EE228 | Basic Physics for Solid State Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE228 | instructors:Fan, S. (PI) description:Topics: energy band theory of solids, energy bandgap engineering, classical kinetic theory, statistical mechanics, and equilibrium and non-equilibrium semiconductor statistics. Prerequisite: course in modern physics.
EE22N | Medical Imaging Systems | http://EE22N.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The technology of major imaging modalities used for disease diagnosis: x-ray, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance; their history, societal impact, and clinical applications. Field trips to a medical center and an imaging research lab. Term paper and presentation. Prerequisites: high school physics and calculus.
EE230 | Biophotonics: Light in Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE230 | instructors:Bowden, A. (PI) description:This course will provide an introduction to the use of optics in biology, primarily focusing on microscopy from an engineering perspective (i.e., the focus of the course is more on technology than biology). Course material will be interspersed with labs to provide hands-on experience with common techniques in modern microscopy (e.g., brightfield, fluorescence, confocal and phase contrast microscopy). Background in college physics strongly recommended. Programming experience with Matlab required.
EE233 | Analog Communications Design Laboratory (EE 133) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE233 | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI); Bennett, M. (TA); Mendoza, M. (TA) description:Design, testing, and applications. Amplitude modulation (AM) using multiplier circuits. Frequency modulation (FM) based on discrete oscillator and integrated modulator circuits such as voltage-controlled oscillators (VCOs). Phased-lock loop (PLL) techniques, characterization of key parameters, and their applications. Practical aspects of circuit implementations. Labs involve building and characterization of AM and FM modulation/demodulation circuits and subsystems. Enrollment limited to 30 undergraduates and coterminal EE students. Prerequisite: EE101B. Undergraduate students enroll in EE133 and Graduate students enroll in EE233. Recommended: EE114/214A.
EE234 | Photonics Laboratory | http://EE234.stanford.edu | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI) description:Photonics and fiber optics with a focus on communication and sensing. Experimental characterization of semiconductor lasers, optical fibers, photodetectors, receiver circuitry, fiber optic links, optical amplifiers, and optical sensors and photonic crystals. Prerequisite: EE 242 or equivalent.  Recommended: EE 236A.
EE236A | Modern Optics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236A | instructors:Byer, R. (PI) description:Geometrical optics, aberrations, optical instruments, radiometry. Ray matrices and Gaussian beams. Wave nature of light. Plane waves: at interfaces, in media with varying refractive index. Diffraction and Fourier optics. Interference, single-beam interferometers (Fabry-Perot), multiple-beam interferometers (Michelson, Mach-Zehnder). Polarization, Jones and Stokes calculi.nFormerly EE 268. Prerequisites: EE 142 or familiarity with electromagnetism and plane waves.
EE236B | Guided Waves | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236B | instructors:Fan, S. (PI); Shi, Y. (TA) description:Maxwell's equations, constitutive relations. Kramers-Kronig relations. Modes in waveguides: slab, rectangular, circular. Photonic crystals, surface plasmon modes. General properties of waveguide modes: orthogonality, phase and group indices, group velocity dispersion. Chirped pulse propagation in dispersive media and its connection to Gaussian beam propagation. Time lens. Waveguide technologies: glass, silicon, III-V semiconductor, metallic. Waveguide devices: fibers, lasers, modulators, arrayed waveguide gratings. Scattering matrix description of passive optical devices, and constraints from energy conservation, time-reversal symmetry and reciprocity. Mode coupling, directional couplers, distributed-feedback structures. Resonators from scattering matrix and input-output perspective. Micro-ring resonators.nFormerly EE 235. Prerequisites: EE 236A and EE 242 or familiarity with differential form of Maxwell's equations.
EE236C | Lasers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE236C | instructors:Fejer, M. (PI) description:Atomic systems, spontaneous emission, stimulated emission, amplification. Three- and four-level systems, rate equations, pumping schemes. Laser principles, conditions for steady-state oscillation. Transverse and longitudinal mode control and tuning. Exemplary laser systems: gas (HeNe), solid state (Nd:YAG, Ti:sapphire) and semiconductors. Elements of laser dynamics and noise.  Formerly EE231.  Prerequisites: EE 236B and familiarity with modern physics and semiconductor physics. Recommended: EE 216 and EE 223 (either may be taken concurrently).
EE23N | Imaging: From the Atom to the Universe | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE23N | instructors:Hesselink, L. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. Forms of imaging including human and animal vision systems, atomic force microscope, microscope, digital camera, holography and three-dimensional imaging, telescope, synthetic aperture radar imaging, nuclear magnetic imaging, sonar and gravitational wave imaging, and the Hubble Space telescope. Physical principles and exposure to real imaging devices and systems.
EE242 | Electromagnetic Waves | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE242 | instructors:Fan, J. (PI); Paik, S. (TA) description:Continuation of 141. Maxwell's equations. Plane waves in lossless and lossy media. Skin effect. Flow of electromagnetic power (Poynting's theorem). Reflection and refraction of waves at planar boundaries. Snell's law and total internal reflection. Reflection and refraction from lossy media. Guided waves. Parallel-plate and dielectric-slab waveguides. Hollow wave-guides, cavity resonators, microstrip waveguides, optical fibers. Interaction of fields with matter and particles. Antennas and radiation of electromagnetic energy. Prerequisite: 141 or PHYSICS 120.
EE243 | Semiconductor Optoelectronic Devices | http://EE243.stanford.edu | instructors:Harris, J. (PI) description:Semiconductor physics and optical processes in semiconductors. Operating principles and practical device features of semiconductor optoelectronic materials and heterostructures. Devices include: optical detectors (p-i-n, avalanche, and MSM); light emitting diodes; electroabsorptive modulators (Franz-Keldysh and QCSE), electrorefractive (directional couplers, Mach-Zehnder), switches (SEEDs); and lasers (waveguide and vertical cavity surface emitting). Prerequisites: semiconductor devices and solid state physics such as EE 216 or equivalent.
EE247 | Introduction to Optical Fiber Communications | http://EE247.stanford.edu | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI) description:Fibers: single- and multi-mode, attenuation, modal dispersion, group-velocity dispersion, polarization-mode dispersion. Nonlinear effects in fibers: Raman, Brillouin, Kerr. Self- and cross-phase modulation, four-wave mixing. Sources: light-emitting diodes, laser diodes, transverse and longitudinal mode control, modulation, chirp, linewidth, intensity noise. Modulators: electro-optic, electro-absorption. Photodiodes: p-i-n, avalanche, responsivity, capacitance, transit time. Receivers: high-impedance, transimpedance, bandwidth, noise. Digital intensity modulation formats: non-return-to-zero, return-to-zero. Receiver performance: Q factor, bit-error ratio, sensitivity, quantum limit. Sensitivity degradations: extinction ratio, intensity noise, jitter, dispersion. Wavelength-division multiplexing. System architectures: local-area, access, metropolitan-area, long-haul. Prerequisites: EE 102A and EE 142.
EE251 | High-Frequency Circuit Design Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE251 | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:Students will study the theory of operation of instruments such as the time-domain reflectometer, sampling oscilloscope and vector network analyzer. They will build on that theoretical foundation by designing, constructing and characterizing numerous wireless building blocks in the upper-UHF range (e.g., up to about 500MHz), in a running series of laboratory exercises that conclude in a final project. Examples include impedance-matching and coupling structures, filters, narrowband and broadband amplifiers, mixers/modulators, and voltage-controlled oscillators. Prerequisite: EE 251 or EE 314.
EE253 | Power Electronics (EE 153) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE253 | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:Addressing the energy challenges of today and the environmental challenges of the future will require efficient energy conversion techniques. This course will discuss the circuits used to efficiently convert ac power to dc power, dc power from one voltage level to another, and dc power to ac power. The components used in these circuits (e.g., diodes, transistors, capacitors, inductors) will also be covered in detail to highlight their behavior in a practical implementation. A lab will be held with the class where students will obtain hands on experience with power electronic circuits. Formerly EE 292J. Prerequisite: EE 101B.
EE254 | Advanced Topics in Power Electronics | http://EE254.stanford.edu | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:In this course, we will study the practical issues related to the practical design of power electronic converters. We will also explore the trade-offs involved in selecting among the different circuits used to convert ac to dc, dc to ac and back to dc over a wide range of power levels suitable for different applications. In Advanced Topics in Power Electronic, as a multidisciplinary field, we will discuss power electronics circuits, extraction of transfer functions in Continuous and discontinuous conduction mode, voltage and current control of power converters, design of input/output filters to meet Electro Magnetic Interference specifications, layout of power electronics circuits and put this knowledge in a very practical context.
EE255 | Green Electronics (EE 155) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE255 | instructors:Dally, B. (PI) description:Many green technologies including hybrid cars, photovoltaic energy systems, efficient power supplies, and energy-conserving control systems have at their heart intelligent, high-power electronics.  This course examines this technology and uses green-tech examples to teach the engineering principles of modeling, optimization, analysis, simulation, and design.  Topics include power converter topologies, periodic steady-state analysis, control, motors and drives, photovol-taic systems, and design of magnetic components.  The course involves a hands-on laboratory and a substantial final project.  Formerly EE 152. Required: EE101B, EE102A, EE108.  Recommended:  ENGR40 or EE122A.
EE261 | The Fourier Transform and Its Applications | http://EE261.stanford.edu | instructors:Gill, J. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Siripuram, A. (PI) description:The Fourier transform as a tool for solving physical problems. Fourier series, the Fourier transform of continuous and discrete signals and its properties. The Dirac delta, distributions, and generalized transforms. Convolutions and correlations and applications; probability distributions, sampling theory, filters, and analysis of linear systems. The discrete Fourier transform and the FFT algorithm. Multidimensional Fourier transform and use in imaging. Further applications to optics, crystallography. Emphasis is on relating the theoretical principles to solving practical engineering and science problems. Prerequisites: Math through ODEs, basic linear algebra, Comfort with sums and discrete signals, Fourier series at the level of 102A
EE263 | Introduction to Linear Dynamical Systems (CME 263) | http://EE263.stanford.edu | instructors:Lall, S. (PI); Lemon, A. (PI) videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/introduction-to-linear-dynamical/id495052533 description:Applied linear algebra and linear dynamical systems with applications to circuits, signal processing, communications, and control systems. Topics: least-squares approximations of over-determined equations, and least-norm solutions of underdetermined equations. Symmetric matrices, matrix norm, and singular-value decomposition. Eigenvalues, left and right eigenvectors, with dynamical interpretation. Matrix exponential, stability, and asymptotic behavior. Multi-input/multi-output systems, impulse and step matrices; convolution and transfer-matrix descriptions. Control, reachability, and state transfer; observability and least-squares state estimation. Prerequisites: linear algebra and matrices as in MATH104; differential equations and Laplace transforms as in EE102B.
EE264 | Digital Signal Processing | http://EE264.stanford.edu | instructors:Gonzalez, A. (PI); Mujica, F. (PI); Schafer, R. (PI); Gonzalez, A. (TA); Kong, T. (TA); Verma, P. (TA) description:This is a course on digital signal processing techniques and their applications. Topics include: review of DSP fundamentals; discrete-time random signals; sampling and multi-rate systems; oversampling and quantization in A-to-D conversion; properties of LTI systems; quantization in fixed-point implementations of filters; digital filter design; discrete Fourier Transform and FFT; spectrum analysis using the DFT; and parametric signal modeling.  The course will also discuss applications of DSP in areas such as speech and audio processing, autonomous vehicles, and software radio.  An optional (1 extra credit hour) lab will provide a hands-on opportunity to explore the application of DSP theory to practical real-time applications. For more information, see the course web page at ee264.stanford.edu. Prerequisite: EE102A and EE102B or equivalent.
EE266 | Stochastic Control (MS&E 251) | http://EE266.stanford.edu | instructors:Lall, S. (PI) description:Introduction to stochastic control, with applications taken from a variety of areas including supply-chain optimization, advertising, finance, dynamic resource allocation, caching, and traditional automatic control. Markov decision processes, optimal policy with full state information for finite-horizon case, infinite-horizon discounted, and average stage cost problems. Bellman value function, value iteration, and policy iteration. Approximate dynamic programming. Linear quadratic stochastic control.  Formerly EE365. Prerequisites: EE 263, EE 178 or equivalent.
EE267 | Virtual Reality | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE267 | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:OpenGL, real-time rendering, 3D display systems, display optics & electronics, IMUs and sensors, tracking, haptics, rendering pipeline, multimodel human perception and depth perception, stereo rendering, presence. Emphasis is on VR technology. Hands-on programming assignments. Final project: create your own virtual environment. Prerequistites: strong programming skills. Helpful: basic computer graphics / OpenGL.
EE271 | Introduction to VLSI Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE271 | instructors:Le, B. (PI) description:Provides a quick introduction to MOS transistors and IC fabrication and then creates abstractions to allow you to create and reason about complex digital systems.  It uses a switch resistor model of a transistor, uses it to model gates, and then shows how gates and physical layout can be synthesized from Verilog or SystemVerilog descriptions.  Most of the class will be spent on providing techniques to create designs that can be validated, are low power, provide good performance, and can be completed in finite time. Prerequisites: 101A, 108A and 108B; familiarity with transistors, logic design, Verilog and digital system organization
EE273 | Digital Systems Engineering | http://EE273.stanford.edu | instructors:Weaver, J. (PI) description:Electrical issues in the design of high-performance digital systems, including signaling, timing, synchronization, noise, and power distribution. High-speed signaling methods; noise in digital systems, its effect on signaling, and methods for noise reduction; timing conventions; timing noise (skew and jitter), its effect on systems, and methods for mitigating timing noise; synchronization issues and synchronizer design; clock and power distribution problems and techniques; impact of electrical issues on system architecture and design. Prerequisites: EE101A and EE108A. Recommended: EE114/214A.
EE278 | Introduction to Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE278.stanford.edu | instructors:El Gamal, A. (PI) description:Review of basic probability and random variables. Random vectors and processes; convergence and limit theorems; IID, independent increment, Markov, and Gaussian random processes; stationary random processes; autocorrelation and power spectral density; mean square error estimation, detection, and linear estimation. Formerly EE 278B. Prerequisites: EE178 and linear systems and Fourier transforms at the level of EE102A,B or EE261.
EE279 | Introduction to Digital Communication | http://EE279.stanford.edu | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Inan, H. (TA) description:Digital communication is a rather unique field in engineering in which theoretical ideas have had an extraordinary impact on the design of actual systems. The course provides a basic understanding of the analysis and design of digital communication systems, building on various ideas from probability theory, stochastic processes, linear algebra and Fourier analysis. Topics include: detection and probability of error for binary and M-ary signals (PAM, QAM, PSK), receiver design and sufficient statistics, controlling the spectrum and the Nyquist criterion, bandpass communication and up/down conversion, design trade-offs: rate, bandwidth, power and error probability, coding and decoding (block codes, convolutional coding and Viterbi decoding).  Prerequisites: 179 or 261, and 178 or 278
EE27N | Electronics Rocks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE27N | instructors:Kovacs, G. (PI) description:Electronics pervades our lives, yet we often feel obliged to let a device function as it was intended. This course is about not being intimidated by voiding a warranty and modding some commercial gadget and about being confident enough to build something cool from scratch. To get there, we will study the basics of "how things work" via "dissection and discussion" and discuss how to hack/mod but focus primarily how to scratch build. Students will be mentored and encouraged to work, in teams, to design and develop a substantial project based on embedded microprocessors and custom circuits as needed. Typical projects include (but are not limited to) microcontrollers such as the Arduino, LED's, sensors, wireless connections to the network or a laptop, and software/firmware as needed. Examples include programmable, color-changing wireless juggling balls, a self-healing mesh-networked hide-and-seek game, and a glowing plasma based clock built from surplus Soviet vacuum tubes and a modern microprocessor. Prerequisites: good hand-eye coordination, intelligence, teamwork skills, curiosity and humility.
EE282 | Computer Systems Architecture | http://EE282.stanford.edu | instructors:Ranganathan, P. (PI) description:Course focuses on how to build modern computing systems, namely notebooks, smartphones, and data centers, covering primarily their hardware architecture and certain system software aspects. For each system class, we cover the system architecture, processor technology, advanced memory hierarchy and I/O organization, power and energy management, and reliability. We will also cover topics such as interactions with system software, virtualization, solid state storage, and security. The programming assignments allow students to explore performance/energy tradeoffs when using heterogeneous hardware resources on smartphone devices. Prerequisite: EE108B. Recommended: CS 140.
EE284 | Introduction to Computer Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE284 | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Structure and components of computer networks; functions and services; packet switching; layered architectures; OSI reference model; physical layer; data link layer; error control; window flow control; media access control protocols used in local area networks (Ethernet, Token Ring, FDDI) and satellite networks; network layer (datagram service, virtual circuit service, routing, congestion control, Internet Protocol); transport layer (UDP, TCP); application layer.
EE290A | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290A | instructors:Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Duncan, A. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290B | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290B | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Duncan, A. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290C | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290C | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Duncan, A. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290D | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE290D | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Duncan, A. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE292B | Micro and Nanoscale Biosensing for Molecular Diagnostics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292B | instructors:Emaminejad, S. (PI) description:The course covers state-of-the-art and emerging bio-sensors, biochips, microfluidics,  which will be studied in the context of molecular diagnostics. Students will briefly learn the relevant biology, biochemistry, and molecular biology pertinent to molecular diag-nostics.  Students will also become equipped with a thorough understanding of the interfaces between electronics, fluidics, and molecular biology. Topics will include microfluidics and mass transfer limits, electrode-electrolyte interfaces, electrochemical noise processes, biosensor system level characterization, determination of performance parameters such as throughput, detection limit, and cost, integration of sensor with microfluidics, and electronic readout circuitry architectures. Emphasis will be placed on in-depth quantitative design of biomolecular sensing platforms.
EE292C | Chemical Vapor Deposition and Epitaxy for Integrated Circuits and Nanostructures | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292C | instructors:Kamins, T. (PI) description:Fundamental aspects of CVD are initially considered, first focusing on processes occurring in the gas phase and then on those occurring on the surface.  Qualitative understanding is emphasized, with minimal use of equations.  Adding energy both thermally and by using a plasma is discussed; atomic-layer deposition is briefly considered.  Examples of CVD equipment are examined.  The second portion of the tutorial examines layers deposited by CVD.  The focus is on group IV semiconductors ¿ especially epitaxial and heteroepitaxial deposition, in which the crystal structure of the depositing layer is related to that of the substrate.  Polycrystalline silicon and the IC interconnect system are then discussed.  Finally, the use of high-density plasmas for rapid gap filling is contrasted with alternative CVD dielectric deposition processes.
EE292G | NanoBioTechnology, Nanoscience and Sensing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292G | instructors:Esfandyarpour, R. (PI) description:Nanobiotechnology, which may be called a "Fundamental Technology of the 21st Century", is a new frontier for Biology with extremely important applications in medical diagnostics, therapeutics and drug discovery based on the development of new materials and sensors. The goal of this course is to provide an insight into the fundamentals of nanotechnology in biological and biomedical research by providing an overview of current topics in Nanoscience and Engineering and their modern day applications in biotechnology. This course will provide a bridge for students from a non-biology background at all levels to the world of Nanobiotechnology. Basic biological molecules and the importance of their detection as well as a thorough understanding of the interfaces between electronics, fluidics, and molecular biology are discussed. Focus is also provided on solid-state materials, Nanostructures and Nano devices and systems as related to biological applications especially detection and sensing, covering top-down MEMS fabrication and integration of sensors with microfluidics to bottom-up biochemistry, applications of Nanostructures and Nanobiotechnology in drug discovery, delivery, and controlled release andnNanobiotechnological applications in environment and food detection and mitigation.
EE292H | Engineering, Entrepreneurship & Climate Change | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292H | instructors:Field, L. (PI) description:The purpose of this seminar series course is to help students and professionals develop the tools to apply the engineering and entrepreneurial mindset to problems that stem from climate change, in order to consider and evaluate possible stabilizing, remedial and adaptive approaches. This course is not a crash course on climate change or policy. Instead we will focus on learning about and discussing the climate problems that seem most tractable to these approaches. Each week Dr. Field and/or a guest speaker will lead a short warm-up discussion/activity and then deliver a talk in his/her area of expertise. We¿ll wrap up with small-group and full-class discussions of related challenges/opportunities and possible engineering-oriented solutions.nClass members are asked to do background reading before each class, to submit a question before each lecture, and to do in-class brainstorming. May be repeated for credit.
EE292I | Insanely Great Products: How do they get built? | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292I | instructors:Obershaw, D. (PI) description:Great products emerge from a sometimes conflict-laden process of collaboration between different functions within companies. This Seminar seeks to demystify this process via case-studies of successful products and companies. Engineering management and businesspeople will share their experiences in discussion with students. Previous companies profiled: Apple, Intel, Facebook, and Genentech -- to name a few. Previous guests include: Jon Rubinstein (NeXT, Apple, Palm), Diane Greene (VMware), and Ted Hoff (Intel). Pre-requisites: None
EE292L | Nanomanufacturing | http://EE292L.stanford.edu | instructors:Nainani, A. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI) description:Fundamentals of nanomanufacturing technology and applications. Topics include recent developments in process technology, lithography and patterning. Technology for FinFET transistors, NAND flash and 3D chips. Manufacturing of LEDs, thin film and crystalline solar cells. Flip classroom model is used supplementing classroom lectures with short videos. Guest speakers include distinguished engineers, entrepreneurs and venture capitalists actively engaged in nanomanufacturing. Prerequisite: background in device physics and process technology. Recommended: EE116, EE216, EE212
EE292T | SmartGrids and Advanced Power Systems Seminar (CEE 272T) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE292T | instructors:Rajagopal, R. (PI) description:A series of seminar and lectures focused on power engineering. Renowned researchers from universities and national labs will deliver bi-weekly seminars on the state of the art of power system engineering. Seminar topics may include: power system analysis and simulation, control and stability, new market mechanisms, computation challenges and solutions, detection and estimation, and the role of communications in the grid. The instructors will cover relevant background materials in the in-between weeks. The seminars are planned to continue throughout the next academic year, so the course may be repeated for credit.
EE293A | Solar Cells, Fuel Cells, and Batteries: Materials for the Energy Solution (ENERGY 293A, MATSCI 156, MATSCI 256) | http://EE293A.stanford.edu | instructors:Clemens, B. (PI); Jan, A. (TA) description:Operating principles and applications of emerging technological solutions to the energy demands of the world. The scale of global energy usage and requirements for possible solutions. Basic physics and chemistry of solar cells, fuel cells, and batteries. Performance issues, including economics, from the ideal device to the installed system. The promise of materials research for providing next generation solutions. Undergraduates register in 156 for 4 units; graduates register in 256 for 3 units.
EE293B | Fundamentals of Energy Processes (ENERGY 293B) | http://EE293B.stanford.edu | instructors:Brandt, A. (PI); Kovscek, A. (PI) description:For seniors and graduate students. Covers scientific and engineering fundamentals of renewable energy processes involving heat.  Thermodynamics, heat engines, solar thermal, geothermal, biomass. Recommended: MATH 19-21, or Math 41,42; PHYSICS 41, 43, 45
EE29N | Electromagnetic Sensors for the Internet of Things | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE29N | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Bregman, J. (TA) description:Have you ever wondered how your phone know what way is up?  How the traffic light know your car is there?  How you can monitor your health with a smart bracelet?  If so, you want to learn about electromagnetic sensors.  In this course we will the electromagnetic principles that allows us to sense things and communicate with things at a distance.  You will learn the fundamentals of electromagnetic sensing and build practical sensors in the laboratory.
EE300 | Master's Thesis and Thesis Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE300 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Chidsey, C. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Eshleman, V. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kailath, T. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Luckham, D. (PI); Macovski, A. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a department faculty. Written thesis required for final letter grade. The continuing grade 'N' is given in quarters prior to thesis submission. See 390 if a letter grade is not appropriate. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE304 | Neuromorphics: Brains in Silicon (BIOE 313) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE304 | instructors:Boahen, K. (PI) description:Neuromorphic systems run perceptual, cognitive and motor tasks in real-time on a network of highly interconnected nonlinear units. To maximize density and minimize energy, these units--like the brain's neurons--are heterogeneous and stochastic. The first half of the course covers learning algorithms that automatically synthesize network configurations to perform a desired computation on a given heterogeneous neural substrate. The second half of the course surveys system-on-a-chip architectures that efficiently realize highly interconnected networks and mixed analog-digital circuit designs that implement area and energy-efficient nonlinear units. Prerequisites: EE102A and EE108 are required; EE114 is recommended.
EE308 | Advanced Circuit Techniques | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE308 | instructors:Lee, T. (PI) description:Design of advanced analog circuits at the system level, including switching power converters, amplitude-stabilized and frequency-stabilized oscillators, voltage references and regulators, power amplifiers and buffers, sample-and-hold circuits, and application-specific op-amp compensation. Approaches for finding creative design solutions to problems with difficult specifications and hard requirements. Emphasis on feedback circuit techniques, design-oriented thinking, and hands-on experience with modern analog building blocks.  Several designs will be built and evaluated, along with associated laboratory projects. Prerequisite: EE 214.
EE310 | SystemX: Ubiquitous Sensing, Computing and Communication Seminar | http://EE310.stanford.edu | instructors:Bahr, R. (PI) description:This is a seminar course with invited speakers. Sponsored by Stanford¿s SystemX Alliance, the talks will cover emerging topics in contemporary hardware/software systems design. Special focus will be given to the key building blocks of sensors, processing elements and wired/wireless communications, as well as their foundations in semiconductor technology, SoC construction, and physical assembly as informed by the SystemX Focus Areas.  The seminar will draw upon distinguished engineering speakers from both industry and academia who are involved at all levels of the technology stack and the applications that are now becoming possible.
EE311 | Advanced Integrated Circuits Technology | http://EE311.stanford.edu | instructors:Saraswat, K. (PI) description:What are the practical and fundamental limits to the evolution of the technology of modern MOS devices and interconnects? How are modern devices and circuits fabricated and what future changes are likely? Advanced techniques and models of MOS devices and back-end (interconnect and contact) processing. What are future device structures and materials to maintain progress in integrated electronics? MOS front-end and back-end process integration. Prerequisites: EE212, EE216 or equivalent.
EE314A | RF Integrated Circuit Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE314A | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI) description:Design of RF integrated circuits for communications systems, primarily in CMOS. Topics: the design of matching networks and low-noise amplifiers at RF, mixers, modulators, and demodulators; review of classical control concepts necessary for oscillator design including PLLs and PLL-based frequency synthesizers. Design of low phase noise oscillators. Design of high-efficiency (e.g., class E, F) RF power amplifiers, coupling networks. Behavior and modeling of passive and active components at RF. Narrowband and broadband amplifiers; noise and distortion measures and mitigation methods. Overview of transceiver architectures. Prerequisite: EE214B.
EE315 | Analog-Digital Interface Circuits | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE315 | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI) description:Analysis and design of circuits and circuit architectures for signal conditioning and data conversion. Fundamental circuit elements such as operational transconductance amplifiers, active filters, sampling circuits, switched capacitor stages and voltage comparators. Sensor interfaces for micro-electromechanical and biomedical applications. Nyquist and oversampling A/D and D/A converters. Prerequisite: EE 214B.
EE323 | Energy in Electronics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE323 | instructors:Pop, E. (PI) description:This course examines energy in modern nanoelectronics, from fundamentals to system-level issues.  Topics include fundamental aspects like energy transfer through electrons and phonons, ballistic limits of current and heat, meso- to macroscale mobility and thermal conductivity. The course also nexamines applied topics including power dissipation in nanoscale devices (FinFETs, phase-change memory, nanowires, graphene, nanotubes), circuit leakage, thermal breakdown, thermometry, heat sinks, and thermal challenges in densely integrated systems. Recommended: EE 216 or equivalent.
EE328 | Physics of Advanced Semiconductor Devices | http://EE328.stanford.edu | instructors:Harris, J. (PI) description:Principles governing the operation of modern semiconductor devices. Assumptions and approximations commonly made in analyzing devices. Emphasis is on the application of semiconductor physics to the development of advanced semiconductor devices such as heterojunctions, HJ-bipolar transistors, HJ-FETs, nanostructures, tunneling, single electron transistor and photonic devices. Use of SENTARUS, a 2-D Poisson solver, for simulation of ultra-small devices. Examples related to state-of-the-art devices and current device research. Prerequisite: 216. Recommended: 316.
EE329 | The Electronic Structure of Surfaces and Interfaces (PHOTON 329) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE329 | instructors:Pianetta, P. (PI) description:Physical concepts and phenomena for surface science techniques probing the electronic and chemical structure of surfaces, interfaces and nanomaterials. Microscopic and atomic models of microstructures; applications including semiconductor device technology, catalysis and energy. Physical processes of UV and X-ray photoemission spectroscopy, Auger electron spectroscopy, surface EXAFS, low energy electron diffraction, electron/photon stimulated ion desorption, scanning tunneling spectroscopy, ion scattering, energy loss spectroscopy and related imaging methods; and experimental aspects of these surface science techniques. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 70 and MATSCI 199/209, or consent of instructor.
EE331 | Biophotonics: Light in Medicine and Biology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE331 | instructors:Bowden, A. (PI) description:Current topics and trends in the use of light in medicine and for advanced microscopy. Course begins with a review of relevant optical principles (basic physics required). Key topics include: light-tissue interactions; sensing and spectroscopy; contrast-enhanced imaging; super-resolution and label-free microscopy; medical applications of light for diagnostics, in-vivo imaging, and therapy; nanophotonics and array technologies. Open to non-majors; programming experience (Matlab and/or C) required.
EE332 | Laser Dynamics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE332 | instructors:Fejer, M. (PI) description:Dynamic and transient effects in lasers including spiking, Q-switching, mode locking, frequency modulation, frequency and spatial mode competition, linear and nonlinear pulse propagation, pulse shaping.  Formerly EE 232. Prerequisite: 236C.
EE334 | Micro and Nano Optical Device Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE334 | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI) description:Lecture and project course on design and analysis of optical devices with emphasis on opportunities and challenges created by scaling to the micrometer and nanometer ranges.  The emphasis is on fundamentals, combined with some coverage of practical implementations.  Prerequisite: EE 242 or equivalent
EE336 | Nanophotonics (MATSCI 346) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE336 | instructors:Brongersma, M. (PI) description:Recent developments in micro- and nanophotonic materials and devices. Basic concepts of photonic crystals. Integrated photonic circuits. Photonic crystal fibers. Superprism effects. Optical properties of metallic nanostructures. Sub-wavelength phenomena and plasmonic excitations. Meta-materials. Prerequisite: Electromagnetic theory at the level of 242.
EE340 | Optical Micro- and Nano-Cavities | http://EE340.stanford.edu | instructors:Vuckovic, J. (PI) description:Optical micro- and nano-cavities and their device applications. Types of optical cavities (microdisks, microspheres, photonic crystal cavities, plasmonic cavities), and their electromagnetic properties, design, and fabrication techniques. Cavity quantum electrodynamics: strong and weak-coupling regime, Purcell factor, spontaneous emission control. Applications of optical cavities, including low-threshold lasers, optical modulators, quantum information processing devices, and bio-chemical sensors. Prerequisites: Advanced undergraduate or basic graduate level knowledge of electromagnetics, quantum.
EE346 | Introduction to Nonlinear Optics | http://EE346.stanford.edu | instructors:Fejer, M. (PI) description:Wave propagation in anisotropic, nonlinear, and time-varying media. Microscopic and macroscopic description of electric-dipole susceptibilities. Free and forced waves; phase matching; slowly varying envelope approximation; dispersion, diffraction, space-time analogy. Harmonic generation; frequency conversion; parametric amplification and oscillation; electro-optic light modulation. Raman and Brillouin scattering; nonlinear processes in optical fibers.  Prerequisites: 242, 236C.
EE348 | Advanced Optical Fiber Communications | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE348 | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI) description:Optical amplifiers: gain, saturation, noise. Semiconductor amplifiers. Erbium-doped fiber amplifiers. System applications: preamplified receiver performance, amplifier chains. Raman amplifiers, lumped vs. distributed amplification. Group-velocity dispersion management: dispersion-compensating fibers, filters, gratings. Interaction of dispersion and nonlinearity, dispersion maps. Multichannel systems. Wavelength-division multiplexing components: filters, multiplexers. WDM systems, crosstalk. Time, subcarrier, code and polarization-division multiplexing. Comparison of modulation techniques: differential phase-shift keying, phase-shift keying, quadrature-amplitude modulation. Comparison of detection techniques: noncoherent, differentially coherent, coherent. Prerequisite: 247.
EE349 | Advanced Topics in Nano-Optics and Plasmonics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE349 | instructors:Fan, J. (PI) description:Electromagnetic phenomena at the nanoscale.  Dipolar interactions between emitters and nanostructures, weak and strong coupling, surface plasmon polaritons and localized plasmons, electromagnetic field enhancements, and near-field coupling between metallic nanostructures.  Numerical tools will be taught and used to simulate nano-optical phenomena. Prerequisite: EE 242 or equivalent.
EE355 | Imaging Radar and Applications (GEOPHYS 265) | http://EE355.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI); Yoon, C. (TA) description:Radar remote sensing, radar image characteristics, viewing geometry, range coding, synthetic aperture processing, correlation, range migration, range/Doppler algorithms, wave domain algorithms, polar algorithm, polarimetric processing, interferometric measurements. Applications: surfafe deformation, polarimetry and target discrimination, topographic mapping surface displacements, velocities of ice fields. Prerequisites: EE261. Recommended: EE254, EE278, EE279.
EE356A | Resonant Converters | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE356A | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:Miniaturization of efficient power converters remain a challenge in power electronics whose goal is to improving energy use and reducing waste.nIn this course, we will study the design of Resonant converters which are capable of operating at higher frequencies than their 'hard-switch' counterparts. Resonant converter are found in high performance applications where high control bandwidth and high power density are required. We will also explore practical design issues and trade off in selecting converter topologies in high performance applications. Prerequisites: EE153/EE253.
EE359 | Wireless Communications | http://EE359.stanford.edu | instructors:Goldsmith, A. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP) description:This course will cover advanced topics in wireless communications for voice, data, and multimedia. Topics include: an overview of current and future wireless systems; wireless channel models including path loss, shadowing, and statistical multipath channel models; fundamental capacity limits of wireless channels; digital modulation and its performance in fading and intersymbol interference; techniques to combat fading including adaptive modulation, diversity, and multiple antenna systems (MIMO); techniques to combat intersymbol interference including equalization,  multicarrier modulation (OFDM), and spread spectrum; and an overview of wireless network design. Prerequisite: 279 or instructor consent.
EE364A | Convex Optimization I (CME 364A, CS 334A) | http://EE364A.stanford.edu | instructors:Boyd, S. (PI); Busseti, E. (TA); Dao Phuc Quang, T. (TA); Fannjiang, C. (TA); Go, K. (TA); Hong, J. (TA); Khosravi, K. (TA); Lemon, A. (TA); Li, C. (TA); Zhechev, Z. (TA) videourl:https://itunes.apple.com/us/course/convex-optimization-i/id495052530 description:Convex sets, functions, and optimization problems. The basics of convex analysis and theory of convex programming: optimality conditions, duality theory, theorems of alternative, and applications. Least-squares, linear and quadratic programs, semidefinite programming, and geometric programming. Numerical algorithms for smooth and equality constrained problems; interior-point methods for inequality constrained problems. Applications to signal processing, communications, control, analog and digital circuit design, computational geometry, statistics, machine learning, and mechanical engineering. Prerequisite: linear algebra such as EE263, basic probability.
EE367 | Computational Imaging and Display (CS 448I) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE367 | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI); Liba, O. (TA) description:Spawned by rapid advances in optical fabrication and digital processing power, a new generation of imaging technology is emerging: computational cameras at the convergence of applied mathematics, optics, and high-performance computing. Similar trends are observed for modern displays pushing the boundaries of resolution, contrast, 3D capabilities, and immersive experiences through the co-design of optics, electronics, and computation. This course serves as an introduction to the emerging field of computational imaging and displays. Students will learn to master bits and photons.
EE368 | Digital Image Processing (CS 232) | http://EE368.stanford.edu | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:Image sampling and quantization color, point operations, segmentation, morphological image processing, linear image filtering and correlation, image transforms, eigenimages, multiresolution image processing, noise reduction and restoration, feature extraction and recognition tasks, image registration. Emphasis is on the general principles of image processing. Students learn to apply material by implementing and investigating image processing algorithms in Matlab and optionally on Android mobile devices. Term project. Recommended: EE261, EE278.
EE369B | Medical Imaging Systems II | http://EE369B.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Imaging internal structures within the body using non-ionizing radiation studied from a systems viewpoint. Modalities include ultrasound and magnetic resonance. Analysis of ultrasonic systems including diffraction and noise. Analysis of magnetic resonance systems including physics, Fourier properties of image formation, and noise. Prerequisite: EE 261
EE369C | Medical Image Reconstruction | http://EE369C.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, J. (PI) description:Reconstruction problems from medical imaging, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and positron emission tomography (PET).  Problems include reconstruction from non-uniform frequency domain data, automatic deblurring, phase unwrapping, reconstruction from incomplete data, and reconstruction from projections. Prerequisite: 369B.
EE373A | Adaptive Signal Processing | http://EE373A.stanford.edu | instructors:Widrow, B. (PI) description:Learning algorithms for adaptive digital filters. Self-optimization. Wiener filter theory. Quadratic performance functions, their eigenvectors and eigenvalues. Speed of convergence. Asymptotic performance versus convergence rate. Applications of adaptive filters to statistical prediction, process modeling, adaptive noise canceling, adaptive antenna arrays, adaptive inverse control, and equalization and echo canceling in modems. Artificial neural networks. Cognitive memory/human and machine. Natural and artificial synapses. Hebbian learning. The Hebbian-LMS algorithm. Theoretical and experimental research projects in adaptive filter theory, communications, audio systems, and neural networks. Biomedical research projects, supervised jointly by EE and Medical School faculty. Recommended: EE263, EE264, EE278.
EE376A | Information Theory (STATS 376A) | http://EE376A.stanford.edu | instructors:Weissman, T. (PI); Ochoa-Alvarez, I. (TA); Tatwawadi, K. (TA) description:The fundamental ideas of information theory. Entropy and intrinsic randomness. Data compression to the entropy limit. Huffman coding. Arithmetic coding. Channel capacity, the communication limit. Gaussian channels. Kolmogorov complexity. Asymptotic equipartition property. Information theory and Kelly gambling. Applications to communication and data compression. Prerequisite: EE178 or STATS 116, or equivalent.
EE377 | Information Theory and Statistics (STATS 311) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE377 | instructors:Duchi, J. (PI); Namkoong, H. (TA) description:Information theoretic techniques in probability and statistics. Fano, Assouad,nand Le Cam methods for optimality guarantees in estimation.  Large deviationsnand concentration inequalities (Sanov's theorem, hypothesis testing, thenentropy method, concentration of measure). Approximation of (Bayes) optimalnprocedures, surrogate risks, f-divergences. Penalized estimators and minimumndescription length. Online game playing, gambling, no-regret learning. Prerequisites: EE 376A (or equivalent) or STATS 300A.
EE378A | Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE378A.stanford.edu | instructors:Jiao, J. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI) description:Random signals in electrical engineering. Discrete-time random processes: stationarity and ergodicity, covariance sequences, power spectral density, parametric models for stationary processes. Fundamentals of linear estimation: minimum mean squared error estimation, optimum linear estimation, orthogonality principle, the Wold decomposition. Causal linear estimation of stationary processes: the causal Wiener filter, Kalman filtering. Parameter estimation: criteria of goodness of estimators, Fisher information, Cramer-Rao inequality, Chapman-Robbins inequality, maximum likelihood estimation, method of moments, consistency, efficiency. ARMA parameter estimation: Yule-Walker equations, Levinson-Durbin algorithm, least squares estimation, moving average parameter estimation, modified Yule-Walker method for model order selection. Spectrum estimation: sample covariances, covariance estimation, Bartlett formula, periodogram, periodogram averaging, windowed periodograms. Prerequisites: EE 278
EE379 | Digital Communication | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE379 | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI) description:Modulation: linear, differential and orthogonal methods; signal spaces; power spectra; bandwidth requirements. Detection: maximum likelihood and maximum a posteriori probability principles; sufficient statistics; correlation and matched-filter receivers; coherent, differentially coherent and noncoherent methods; error probabilities; comparison of modulation and detection methods. Intersymbol interference: single-carrier channel model; Nyquist requirement; whitened matched filter; maximum likelihood sequence detection; Viterbi algorithm; linear equalization; decision-feedback equalization. Multi-carrier modulation: orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing; capacity of parallel Gaussian channels; comparison of single- and multi-carrier techniques.  Prerequisite: EE102B, EE278
EE380 | Colloquium on Computer Systems | http://EE380.stanford.edu | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Freeman, A. (PI) description:Live presentations of current research in the design, implementation, analysis, and applications of computer systems. Topics range over a wide range and are different every quarter. Topics may include fundamental science, mathematics, cryptography, device physics, integrated circuits, computer architecture, programming, programming languages, optimization, applications, simulation, graphics, social implications, venture capital, patent and copyright law, networks, computer security, and other topics of related to computer systems. May be repeated for credit.
EE382C | Interconnection Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE382C | instructors:McDonald, N. (PI) description:The architecture and design of interconnection networks used to communicate from processor to memory, from processor to processor, and in switches and routers. Topics: network topology, routing methods, flow control, router microarchitecture, and performance analysis. Enrollment limited to 30. Prerequisite: 282.
EE384A | Internet Routing Protocols and Standards | http://EE384A.stanford.edu | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Local area networks addressing and switching; IEEE 802.1 bridging protocols (transparent bridging, virtual LANs). Internet routing protocols:  interior gateways (RIP, OSPF) and exterior gateways (BGP); multicast routing; multiprotocol label switching (MPLS). Routing in mobile networks: Mobile IP, Mobile Ad Hoc Networks (MANET), Wireless Mesh Networks. Prerequisite: EE 284 or CS 144.
EE384C | Wireless Local and Wide Area Networks | http://EE384C.stanford.edu | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Characteristics of wireless communication: multipath, noise, and interference. Communications techniques: spread-spectrum, CDMA, and OFDM. IEEE 802.11 physical layer specifications: FHSS, DSSS, IEEE 802.11b (CCK), and 802.11a/g (OFDM). IEEE 802.11 media access control protocols: carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance (CSMA/CA), point coordination function (PCF), IEEE802.11e for differentiated services. IEEE 802.11 network architecture: ad hoc and infrastructure modes, access point functionality. Management functions: synchronization, power management and association. IEEE 802.11s Mesh Networks. IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX) network architecture and protocols: Physical Layer (OFDMA) and Media Access Control Layer. Current research papers in the open literature. Prerequisite: EE 284 or CS 244A.
EE384S | Performance Engineering of Computer Systems & Networks | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE384S | instructors:Bambos, N. (PI) description:Modeling and control methodologies for high-performance network engineering, including: Markov chains and stochastic modeling, queueing networks and congestion management, dynamic programming and task/processor scheduling, network dimensioning and optimization, and simulation methods. Applications for design of high-performance architectures for wireline/wireless networks and the Internet, including: traffic modeling, admission and congestion control, quality of service support, power control in wireless networks, packet scheduling in switches, video streaming over wireless links, and virus/worm propagation dynamics and countermeasures. Enrollment limited to 30. Prerequisites: basic networking technologies and probability.
EE385A | Robust and Testable Systems Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE385A | instructors:Mitra, S. (PI) description:Student/faculty discussions of research problems in the design of reliable digital systems. Areas: fault-tolerant systems, design for testability, production testing, and system reliability. Emphasis is on student presentations and Ph.D. thesis research. May be repeated for credit. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.
EE387 | Algebraic Error Control Codes | http://EE387.stanford.edu | instructors:Gill, J. (PI) description:Theory and implementation of algebraic codes for detection and correction of random and burst errors. Introduction to finite fields. Linear block codes, cyclic codes, Hamming codes, BCH codes, Reed-Solomon codes. Decoding algorithms for BCH and Reed-Solomon codes. Prerequisites: elementary probability, linear algebra.
EE388 | Modern Coding Theory | http://EE388.stanford.edu | instructors:Montanari, A. (PI) description:Tools for analysis and optimization of iterative coding systems. LDPC, turbo and, RA codes. Optimized ensembles, message passing algorithms, density evolution, and analytic techniques. Prerequisite: 376A.
EE390 | Special Studies or Projects in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE390 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Close, S. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dai, H. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Johari, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member. Individual or team activities may involve lab experimentation, design of devices or systems, or directed reading. May be repeated for credit.
EE391 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE391 | instructors:Abel, J. (PI); Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Bent, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Brongersma, M. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Close, S. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); Cui, Y. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hellman, M. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lauben, D. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Peumans, P. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rajagopal, R. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Yang, D. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); de la Zerda, A. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member; written report or written examination required. Letter grade given on the basis of the report; if not appropriate, student should enroll in 390. May be repeated for credit.
EE392B | Industrial Internet of Things | http://EE392B.stanford.edu | instructors:Gorinevsky, D. (PI); O'Neill, D. (PI) description:The seminar will feature guest lectures from the industry to discuss the state of the affairs in the Industrial Internet of Things (IoT) with emphasis on existing and new Data Science, analytics, and Big Data applications. The class will address several verticals. One of them is electrical power industry, which is undergoing transition to renewables and distributed generation. Another one is aerospace industry including airlines and equipment vendors. Other verticals are oil and gas, data centers, and semiconductor manufacturing.
EE392D | Designing Civic Technologies with Virtual Reality | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392D | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:In this class students develop prototypes for virtual reality applications, which strive for a positive impact on society. The students work in interdisciplinary teams, and the projects are developed following the human-centered design process of need-finding, rapid prototyping, user-testing and iterations. We approach virtual reality as a civic technology in the following focus areas: education, environment, health care, democratic decision-making and journalistic storytelling. The class collaborates with industry and organizational partners in those respective areas for needfinding, prototyping and user-testing.
EE392E | VLSI Signal Processing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392E | instructors: description:DSP architecture design.  Study of circuit and architecture techniques in energy-area-performance space, design methodology based on a data-flow graph model that leads to hardware implementation.  We explore automated wordlength reduction, direct and recursive filters, time-frequency analysis and other examples.  The project focuses on architecture exploration for selected DSP algorithms.  Useful for algorithm designers who consider hardware constraints and for circuit designers who prototype DSP algo-rithms in hardware. Prerequisites: EE102B and EE108A; Recommended: EE264 and EE271.
EE392I | Seminar on Trends in Computing and Communications | http://EE392I.stanford.edu | instructors:Singh, J. (PI) description:Lectures series and invited talks on current trends in computing and communications, and ongoing initiatives for research and open innovation. This year's focus on evolving cloud computing architectures and their impact on the enterprise; big data trends and rise of the third platform; software as a service; wireless and cellular network architectures; mobility and mobile data proliferation; open mobile platforms (e.g. Android); multi-homed mobile networking, associated data communication and mobile resource trade-offs, and system implementation in smartphones and Android devices.
EE392K | Analysis and Modeling of Big Data from Things That Move | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392K | instructors:Prabhakar, B. (PI) description:The course will consider data from real-world systems, with an emphasis on ¿things that move¿. Methods of sensing movement, denoising movement data through filtering, and algorithms for reconstructing trajectories from snapshots will be discussed. Principles of creating a ¿movement database¿ and using it for anomaly detection, launching ad hoc queries to get into the movement of large fleets (buses, trains, taxis) and passengers. Novel variants of the traveling salesman problems and its application to delivery systems will also be covered.
EE392L | Modern Cellular Communication Systems | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392L | instructors:AHMADI, S. (PI) description:In-depth study of theoretical and practical aspects of next-generation cellular communication systems including design principles, system and service requirements, implementation limitations and deployment scenarios using examples from real-life systems. Topics include radio access and core network protocols; centralized and distributed network architectures; power, mobility, and interference management; RF spectrum utilization; network capacity and user throughput optimization; coding and modulation, multiple-access schemes, and multi-antenna transmission techniques; modern RF transceiver architectures and baseband signal processing; multi-radio platforms; and future trends in wireless communication. Suggested prerequisites: EE359 or equivalent courses.
EE392Q | Parallel Processors Beyond Multicore Processing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392Q | instructors:Di Blas, A. (PI) description:The current parallel computing research emphasizes multi-cores, but there are alterna-tive array processors with significant potential. This hands-on course focuses on SIMD (Single-Instruction, Multiple-Data) massively parallel processors. Topics: Flynn's Taxonomy, parallel architectures, Kestrel architecture and simulator, principles of SIMD programming, parallel sorting with sorting networks, string comparison with dynamic programming (edit distance, Smith-Waterman), arbitrary-precision operations with fixed-point numbers, reductions, vector and matrix multiplication, image processing algo-rithms, asynchronous algorithms on SIMD ("SIMD Phase Programming Model"), Man-delbrot set, analysis of parallel performance.
EE392T | Seminar in Chip Test and Debug | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE392T | instructors:Murray, S. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI) description:Seminars by industry professionals in digital IC manufacturing test and silicon debug. Topics include yield and binsplit modeling, defect types and detection, debug hardware, physical analysis, and design for test/debug circuits. Case studies of silicon failures. Prerequisite: basic digital IC design (271 or 371).
EE395 | Electrical Engineering Instruction: Practice Teaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE395 | instructors:Gray, R. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Open to advanced EE graduate students who plan to make teaching their career. Students conduct a section of an established course taught in parallel by an experienced instructor. Enrollment limited.
EE400 | Thesis and Thesis Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE400 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bayati, M. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dai, H. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McConnell, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Melen, R. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Narasimha, M. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Walt, M. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wenstrand, J. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:Limited to candidates for the degree of Engineer or Ph.D.May be repeated for credit.
EE402A | Topics in International Technology Management | http://EE402A.stanford.edu | instructors:Dasher, R. (PI) description:Theme for Autumn 2015 is ¿International Partnerships for Advanced Intelligent Systems.¿  This series features distinguished speakers from industry and government who are involved with international R&D projects in areas such as IOT (Internet of Things), autonomous vehicles and other robotics, smart medical devices and services, and next generation energy and transportation systems. The focus is on projects involving at least one Asia-based partner. Please see syllabus for specific requirements, which may differ from those of other seminars at Stanford.
EE402T | Entrepreneurship in Asian High-Tech Industries (CHINGEN 402T, JAPANGEN 402T, KORGEN 402T) | http://EE402T.stanford.edu | instructors:Dasher, R. (PI) description:Distinctive patterns and challenges of entrepreneurship in Asia; update of business and technology issues in the creation and growth of start-up companies in major Asian economies.  Distinguished speakers from industry, government, and academia. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE410 | Integrated Circuit Fabrication Laboratory | http://EE410.stanford.edu | instructors:Howe, R. (PI); Suria, A. (TA); Xue, M. (TA) description:Fabrication, simulation, and testing of a  submicron CMOS process. Practical aspects of IC fabrication including silicon wafer cleaning, photolithography, etching, oxidation, diffusion, ion implantation, chemical vapor deposition, physical sputtering, and electrical testing. Students also simulate the CMOS process using process simulator TSUPREM4 of the structures and electrical parameters that should result from the process flow. Taught in the Stanford Nanofabrication Facility (SNF). Preference to students pursuing doctoral research program requiring SNF facilities. Enrollment limited to 20. Prerequisites: EE 212, EE 216, consent of instructor.
EE412 | Advanced Nanofabrication Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE412 | instructors:Howe, R. (PI) description:Experimental projects and seminars on integrated circuit fabrication using epitaxial, oxidation, diffusion, evaporation, sputtering, and photolithographic processes with emphasis on techniques for achieving advanced device performance. May be repeated for additional credit. Prerequisites: ENGR341 or EE410 or consent of instructor.
EE46 | Engineering For Good: Save the World and Have Fun Doing It | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE46 | instructors:Le, M. (PI) description:Projects that provide immediate and positive impact on the world. Focus is on global health by learning from experts in this field. Students work on real-world projects with help from members of NGOs and social entrepreneurial companies as part of the hand-on learning experience. Prerequisite: ENGR 40 or EE 122A or CS 106B or consent of instructor.
EE47 | Press Play: Interactive Device Design | http://EE47.stanford.edu | instructors:Sirkin, D. (PI) description:Introduction to the human-centered and technical workings behind interactive devices ranging from cellphones and video controllers to smart cars and appliances. Students build a working MP3 player prototype of their own design, using embedded microcontrollers, digital audio decoders and component sensors, and other electronic hardware. Topics include electronics prototyping, interface prototyping, sensors and actuators, micro-controller development, physical prototyping, and user testing. Prerequisite: CS106A and X or consent of instructor.
EE60N | Man versus Nature: Coping with Disasters Using Space Technology (GEOPHYS 60N) | http://EE60N.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI) description:Preference to freshman. Natural hazards, earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, hurricanes, and fires, and how they affect people and society; great disasters such as asteroid impacts that periodically obliterate many species of life. Scientific issues, political and social consequences, costs of disaster mitigation, and how scientific knowledge affects policy. How spaceborne imaging technology makes it possible to respond quickly and mitigate consequences; how it is applied to natural disasters; and remote sensing data manipulation and analysis. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE65 | Modern Physics for Engineers | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE65 | instructors:Miller, D. (PI) description:This course introduces the core ideas of modern physics that enable applications ranging from solar energy and efficient lighting to the modern electronic and optical devices and nanotechnologies that sense, process, store, communicate and display all our information. Though the ideas have broad impact, the course is widely accessible to engineering and science students with only basic linear algebra and calculus through simple ordinary differential equations as mathematics background. Topics include the quantum mechanics of electrons and photons (Schrödinger's equation, atoms, electrons, energy levels and energy bands; absorption and emission of photons; quantum confinement in nanostructures), the statistical mechanics of particles (entropy, the Boltzmann factor, thermal distributions), the thermodynamics of light (thermal radiation, limits to light concentration, spontaneous and stimulated emission), and the physics of information (Maxwell¿s demon, reversibility, entropy and noise in physics and information theory).  Pre-requisite: Physics 41. Pre- or co-requisite: Math 53 or CME 102.
EE801 | TGR Project | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE801 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); Cui, Y. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Palanker, D. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Popelka, G. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:
EE802 | TGR Dissertation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=EE802 | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Arbabian, A. (PI); Bahai, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Bent, S. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bosi, M. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Bravman, J. (PI); Bube, R. (PI); Byer, R. (PI); Cheriton, D. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Cover, T. (PI); Cox, D. (PI); DaRosa, A. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Dasher, R. (PI); Dill, D. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Enge, P. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Eshleman, V. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Franklin, G. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, F. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Glover, G. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Goodman, J. (PI); Gorinevsky, D. (PI); Gray, R. (PI); Guibas, L. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Harris, S. (PI); Helms, C. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kailath, T. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kino, G. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lam, M. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Leeson, D. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); Linscott, I. (PI); Luckham, D. (PI); Macovski, A. (PI); Manoharan, H. (PI); McCluskey, E. (PI); McConnell, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Meng, T. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Napel, S. (PI); Ng, A. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pelc, N. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Powell, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Pratt, V. (PI); Quate, C. (PI); Rajagopal, R. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shahidi, R. (PI); Shen, Z. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Siegel, M. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Spielman, D. (PI); Stinson, J. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tyler, G. (PI); Ullman, J. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); White, R. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Xing, L. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI); Gillespie, J. (GP); Swenson, M. (GP) description:May be repeated for credit.
