1966 	Alan J. Perlis[9] 	For his influence in the area of advanced computer programming techniques and compiler construction
1967 	Maurice Wilkes 	Professor Wilkes is best known as the builder and designer of the EDSAC, the first computer with an internally stored program. Built in 1949, the EDSAC used a mercury delay line memory. He is also known as the author, with Wheeler and Gill, of a volume on "Preparation of Programs for Electronic Digital Computers" in 1951, in which program libraries were effectively introduced
1968 	Richard Hamming 	For his work on numerical methods, automatic coding systems, and error-detecting and error-correcting codes
1969 	Marvin Minsky 	For his central role in creating, shaping, promoting, and advancing the field of artificial intelligence.
1970 	James H. Wilkinson 	For his research in numerical analysis to facilitate the use of the high-speed digital computer, having received special recognition for his work in computations in linear algebra and "backward" error analysis
1971 	John McCarthy 	McCarthy's lecture "The Present State of Research on Artificial Intelligence" is a topic that covers the area in which he has achieved considerable recognition for his work
1972 	Edsger W. Dijkstra 	Edsger Dijkstra was a principal contributor in the late 1950s to the development of the ALGOL, a high level programming language which has become a model of clarity and mathematical rigor. He is one of the principal proponents of the science and art of programming languages in general, and has greatly contributed to our understanding of their structure, representation, and implementation. His fifteen years of publications extend from theoretical articles on graph theory to basic manuals, expository texts, and philosophical contemplations in the field of programming languages
1973 	Charles W. Bachman 	For his outstanding contributions to database technology
1974 	Donald E. Knuth 	For his major contributions to the analysis of algorithms and the design of programming languages, and in particular for his contributions to "The Art of Computer Programming" through his well-known books in a continuous series by this title
1975 	Allen Newell and Herbert A. Simon 	In joint scientific efforts extending over twenty years, initially in collaboration with J. C. Shaw at the RAND Corporation, and subsequentially [sic] with numerous faculty and student colleagues at Carnegie Mellon University, they have made basic contributions to artificial intelligence, the psychology of human cognition, and list processing
1976 	Michael O. Rabin and Dana S. Scott 	For their joint paper "Finite Automata and Their Decision Problem,"[10] which introduced the idea of nondeterministic machines, which has proved to be an enormously valuable concept. Their (Scott & Rabin) classic paper has been a continuous source of inspiration for subsequent work in this field
1977 	John Backus 	For profound, influential, and lasting contributions to the design of practical high-level programming systems, notably through his work on FORTRAN, and for seminal publication of formal procedures for the specification of programming languages
1978 	Robert W. Floyd 	For having a clear influence on methodologies for the creation of efficient and reliable software, and for helping to found the following important subfields of computer science: the theory of parsing, the semantics of programming languages, automatic program verification, automatic program synthesis, and analysis of algorithms
1979 	Kenneth E. Iverson 	For his pioneering effort in programming languages and mathematical notation resulting in what the computing field now knows as APL, for his contributions to the implementation of interactive systems, to educational uses of APL, and to programming language theory and practice
1980 	C. Antony R. Hoare 	For his fundamental contributions to the definition and design of programming languages
1981 	Edgar F. Codd 	For his fundamental and continuing contributions to the theory and practice of database management systems, esp. relational databases
1982 	Stephen A. Cook 	For his advancement of our understanding of the complexity of computation in a significant and profound way
1983 	Ken Thompson and Dennis M. Ritchie 	For their development of generic operating systems theory and specifically for the implementation of the UNIX operating system
1984 	Niklaus Wirth 	For developing a sequence of innovative computer languages, EULER, ALGOL-W, MODULA and Pascal
1985 	Richard M. Karp 	For his continuing contributions to the theory of algorithms including the development of efficient algorithms for network flow and other combinatorial optimization problems, the identification of polynomial-time computability with the intuitive notion of algorithmic efficiency, and, most notably, contributions to the theory of NP-completeness
1986 	John Hopcroft and Robert Tarjan 	For fundamental achievements in the design and analysis of algorithms and data structures
1987 	John Cocke 	For significant contributions in the design and theory of compilers, the architecture of large systems and the development of reduced instruction set computers (RISC)
1988 	Ivan Sutherland 	For his pioneering and visionary contributions to computer graphics, starting with Sketchpad, and continuing after
1989 	William Kahan 	For his fundamental contributions to numerical analysis. One of the foremost experts on floating-point computations. Kahan has dedicated himself to "making the world safe for numerical computations."
1990 	Fernando J. Corbató 	For his pioneering work organizing the concepts and leading the development of the general-purpose, large-scale, time-sharing and resource-sharing computer systems, CTSS and Multics.
1991 	Robin Milner 	For three distinct and complete achievements: 1) LCF, the mechanization of Scott's Logic of Computable Functions, probably the first theoretically based yet practical tool for machine assisted proof construction; 2) ML, the first language to include polymorphic type inference together with a type-safe exception-handling mechanism; 3) CCS, a general theory of concurrency. In addition, he formulated and strongly advanced full abstraction, the study of the relationship between operational and denotational semantics.
1992 	Butler W. Lampson 	For contributions to the development of distributed, personal computing environments and the technology for their implementation: workstations, networks, operating systems, programming systems, displays, security and document publishing.
1993 	Juris Hartmanis and Richard E. Stearns 	In recognition of their seminal paper which established the foundations for the field of computational complexity theory.
1994 	Edward Feigenbaum and Raj Reddy 	For pioneering the design and construction of large scale artificial intelligence systems, demonstrating the practical importance and potential commercial impact of artificial intelligence technology.[11]
1995 	Manuel Blum 	In recognition of his contributions to the foundations of computational complexity theory and its application to cryptography and program checking.
1996 	Amir Pnueli 	For seminal work introducing temporal logic into computing science and for outstanding contributions to program and systems verification.
1997 	Douglas Engelbart 	For an inspiring vision of the future of interactive computing and the invention of key technologies to help realize this vision.
1998 	Jim Gray 	For seminal contributions to database and transaction processing research and technical leadership in system implementation.
1999 	Frederick P. Brooks, Jr. 	For landmark contributions to computer architecture, operating systems, and software engineering.
2000 	Andrew Chi-Chih Yao 	In recognition of his fundamental contributions to the theory of computation, including the complexity-based theory of pseudorandom number generation, cryptography, and communication complexity.
2001 	Ole-Johan Dahl and Kristen Nygaard 	For ideas fundamental to the emergence of object-oriented programming, through their design of the programming languages Simula I and Simula 67.
2002 	Ronald L. Rivest, Adi Shamir and Leonard M. Adleman 	For their ingenious contribution for making public-key cryptography useful in practice.
2003 	Alan Kay 	For pioneering many of the ideas at the root of contemporary object-oriented programming languages, leading the team that developed Smalltalk, and for fundamental contributions to personal computing.
2004 	Vinton G. Cerf and Robert E. Kahn 	For pioneering work on internetworking, including the design and implementation of the Internet's basic communications protocols, TCP/IP, and for inspired leadership in networking.
2005 	Peter Naur 	For fundamental contributions to programming language design and the definition of ALGOL 60, to compiler design, and to the art and practice of computer programming.
2006 	Frances E. Allen 	For pioneering contributions to the theory and practice of optimizing compiler techniques that laid the foundation for modern optimizing compilers and automatic parallel execution.
2007 	Edmund M. Clarke, E. Allen Emerson and Joseph Sifakis 	For [their roles] in developing model checking into a highly effective verification technology, widely adopted in the hardware and software industries.[12]
2008 	Barbara Liskov 	For contributions to practical and theoretical foundations of programming language and system design, especially related to data abstraction, fault tolerance, and distributed computing.
2009 	Charles P. Thacker 	For his pioneering design and realization of the Xerox Alto, the first modern personal computer, and in addition for his contributions to the Ethernet and the Tablet PC.
2010 	Leslie G. Valiant 	For transformative contributions to the theory of computation, including the theory of probably approximately correct (PAC) learning, the complexity of enumeration and of algebraic computation, and the theory of parallel and distributed computing.
2011 	Judea Pearl[13] 	For fundamental contributions to artificial intelligence through the development of a calculus for probabilistic and causal reasoning.[14]
2012 	Silvio Micali Shafi Goldwasser 	For transformative work that laid the complexity-theoretic foundations for the science of cryptography and in the process pioneered new methods for efficient verification of mathematical proofs in complexity theory.[15]
2013 	Leslie Lamport 	For fundamental contributions to the theory and practice of distributed and concurrent systems, notably the invention of concepts such as causality and logical clocks, safety and liveness, replicated state machines, and sequential consistency.[16]
