9.00 | Introduction to Psychological Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-00-introduction-to-psychology-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Jeremy Wolfe term:Fall 2004 features:Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) textbook:Introducing Psychology: Brain, Person, Group (Kosslyn, Stephen M.; Rosenberg, Robin S.) description:A survey of the scientific study of human nature, including how the mind works, and how the brain supports the mind.  Topics include the mental and neural bases of perception, emotion, learning, memory, cognition, child development, personality, psychopathology, and social interaction.  Consideration of how such knowledge relates to debates about nature and nurture, free will, consciousness, human differences, self, and society. 
9.01 | Introduction to Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-01-introduction-to-neuroscience-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Mark Bear,  Sebastian Seung term:Fall 2007 features: textbook:Bear, Mark F., Barry W. Connors, and Michael A. Neuroscience: Exploring the Brain. 3rd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2006. prereq:8.02 8.021 8.022 description:Introduction to the mammalian nervous system, with emphasis on the structure and function of the human brain. Topics include the function of nerve cells, sensory systems, control of movement, learning and memory, and diseases of the brain. 
9.011 | Systems Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-011-the-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-i-fall-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Earl Miller,  M. Christian Brown<br/>(Guest Lecturer),  Matt Wilson,  Peter H. Schiller<br/>(Guest Lecturer),  Ann M. Graybiel<br/>(Guest Lecturer) term:Fall 2002 features: description:Survey of brain and behavioral studies. Examines principles underlying the structure and function of the nervous system, with a focus on systems approaches. Topics include development of the nervous system and its connections, sensory systems of the brain, the motor system, higher cortical functions, and behavioral and cellular analyses of learning and memory. Preference to first-year graduate students in BCS. 
9.012 | Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-012-the-brain-and-cognitive-sciences-ii-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Edward Gibson,  Joshua Tenenbaum,  Pawan Sinha term:Spring 2006 features: description:Intensive survey of cognitive science. Topics include visual perception, language, memory, cognitive architecture, learning, reasoning, decision-making, and cognitive development. Topics covered from behavioral, computational, and neural perspectives. 
9.013J | Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience Core II | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-013j-cell-and-molecular-neurobiology-spring-2008 | level:Graduate instructors:Martha Constantine-Paton,  Morgan Sheng,  William Quinn term:Spring 2008 features: textbook:Levitan, Irwin B., and Leonard K. Kaczmarek. The Neuron: Cell & Molecular Biology. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2001. description:Survey and primary literature review of major areas in molecular and cellular neurobiology. Covers genetic neurotrophin signaling, adult neurogenesis, G-protein coupled receptor signaling, glia function, epigenetics, neuronal and homeostatic plasticity, neuromodulators of circuit function, and neurological/psychiatric disease mechanisms. Includes lectures and exams, and involves presentation and discussion of primary literature. 9.015 recommended, though the core subjects can be taken in any sequence. 
9.015J | Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience Core I | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.015J Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience Core I | instructors:J. T. Littleton, H. Sive, F. Gertler  description:Survey and primary literature review of major topic areas in molecular and cellular neurobiology. Covers neurogenomics, nervous system formation, axonal pathfinding, cytoskeletal regulation, synapse formation, neurotransmitter release, and cellular neurophysiology. Includes lectures and weekly paper write-ups, together with student presentations and discussion of primary literature. A final two-page research write-up is also due at the end of the term. 
9.04 | Sensory Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-04-sensory-systems-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Peter H. Schiller,  M. Christian Brown term:Fall 2013 features:Video lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), This Course at MIT textbook:[FundamentalNeuro] =  Squire, Larry, et al, eds. Fundamental Neuroscience. 3rd ed. Academic Press, 2008. textbook:[AuditoryNeuro] =   Schnupp, J., I. Nelken, and A. King. Auditory Neuroscience: Making Sense of Sound. MIT Press, 2010. textbook:Fafrowicz, Magdalena, et al, eds. Section 5 in Neuroadaptive Systems: Theory and Applications. CRC Press, 2012, pp. 97–138. textbook:Sekuler, R., and R. Blake. Chapters 5–8 in Perception. McGraw-Hill College, 2001. textbook:Brown, M. "Efferent Systems to the Auditory Periphery." In Encyclopedia of Neuroscience. 4th ed. Edited by L. Squire, T. Albright, F. Bloom, F. Gage, and N. Spitzer. Academic Press, 2009. textbook:Caplan, D. T., and J. L. Gould. "Language and Communication—the part on human language." In Fundamental Neuroscience. 3rd ed. Edited by L. R. Squire, D. Berg, F. E. Bloom, et al. Academic Press, 2008, pp. 1184–98. textbook:Rockland, K. S., J. H. Kaas, and A. Peters, eds. Chapter 2 in Cerebral Cortex: Volume 12: Extrastriate Cortex in Primates. Springer, 1998. prereq:9.01 description:Examines the neural bases of sensory perception. Focuses on physiological and anatomical studies of the mammalian nervous system as well as behavioral studies of animals and humans. Topics include visual pattern, color and depth perception, auditory responses and sound localization, olfactory and somatosensory perception. 
9.07 | Statistics for Brain and Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-07-statistical-methods-in-brain-and-cognitive-science-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Ruth Rosenholtz term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes textbook:All readings are from:  Freedman, Pisani, and Purves. Statistics. 3rd ed. New York, NY: Norton, 1998. prereq:9.40 description:Provides students with the basic tools for analyzing experimental data, properly interpreting statistical reports in the literature, and reasoning under uncertain situations. Topics organized around three key theories: probability, statistical, and the linear model. Probability theory covers axioms of probability, discrete and continuous probability models, law of large numbers, and the Central Limit Theorem. Statistical theory covers estimation, likelihood theory, Bayesian methods, bootstrap and other Monte Carlo methods, as well as hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, elementary design of experiments principles and goodness-of-fit. The linear model theory covers the simple regression model and the analysis of variance. Places equal emphasis on theory, data analyses, and simulation studies. 
9.073J | Statistics for Neuroscience Research | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.073J Statistics for Neuroscience Research | instructors:E. N. Brown  description:A survey of statistical methods for neuroscience research. Core topics include introductions to the theory of point processes, the generalized linear model, Monte Carlo methods, Bayesian methods, multivariate methods, time-series analysis, spectral analysis and state-space modeling. Emphasis on developing a firm conceptual understanding of the statistical paradigm and statistical methods primarily through analyses of actual experimental data. 
9.09J | Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-29j-cellular-neurobiology-spring-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Troy Littleton,  William Quinn term:Spring 2012 features: textbook:[Squire] =  Squire, L. R., D. Berg, et al. Fundamental Neuroscience. 3rd ed. Academic Press, 2008. textbook:[Kandel] =  Kandel, Eric R., James H. Schwartz, and Thomas M. Jessell, eds. Principles of Neural Science. 4th ed. McGraw-Hill, Health Professions Division, 2000. textbook:[Nicholls] =  Nicholls, John G. From Neuron to Brain. Sinauer Associates, 2011. prereq:9.01 7.05 description:Introduction to the structure and function of the nervous system. Emphasizes the cellular properties of neurons and other excitable cells. Includes the structure and biophysical properties of excitable cells, synaptic transmission, neurochemistry, neurodevelopment, integration of information in simple systems, and detection and information coding during sensory transduction. 
9.10 | Cognitive Neuroscience | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-10-cognitive-neuroscience-spring-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin term:Spring 2006 features: textbook:Cognitive Neuroscience: The Biology of the Mind (Gazzaniga, Michael S.; Ivry, Richard B.; Mangun, George R.) prereq:9.01 description:Explores the cognitive and neural processes that support attention, vision, language, social cognition, music understanding, emotion, motor control, and memory. Begins with the fundamental behavioral phenomena, then progresses to models based on brain systems in humans and animals, and ultimately models based on populations of neurons. Includes examples of clinical conditions and case studies in patients. Students prepare presentations summarizing journal articles. 
9.110J | Nonlinear Control System Design | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-110j-neurology-neuropsychology-and-neurobiology-of-aging-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Suzanne Corkin,  Vernon M. Ingram term:Spring 2005 features: prereq:16.31 6.241 2.151 description:Introduction to applied nonlinear control and estimation. Nonlinear stability theory, Lyapunov analysis, Barbalat's lemma. Feedback linearization, internal dynamics. Sliding surfaces. Adaptive nonlinear control. Contraction analysis, differential stability theory. Nonlinear observers. Stable adaptive control using multiresolution bases. Stability of nonlinear partial differential systems. Asynchronous distributed computation. Concurrent Synchronization. Emphasis on applications to physical systems (robots, aircraft, spacecraft, underwater vehicles, reaction-diffusion processes, machine vision, oscillators, internet). Term projects. 
9.12 | Experimental Molecular Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-12-experimental-molecular-neurobiology-fall-2006 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Carlos Lois,  Yasunori Hayashi term:Fall 2006 features: prereq:9.01 7.013 7.012 7.016 7.015 7.014 description:Experimental techniques in cellular and molecular neurobiology. Designed for students without previous experience in techniques of cellular and molecular biology. Experimental approaches include DNA manipulation, molecular clonging, protein biochemistry, dissection and culture of brain cells, synaptic protein analysis, immunocytochemistry, and fluorescent microscopy. One lab session plus one paper review session per week. Instruction and practice in written communication provided. Enrollment limited. 
9.123J | Neurotechnology in Action | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.123J Neurotechnology in Action | instructors:A. Jasanoff, E. Boyden, M. Jonas  description:Offers a fast-paced introduction to numerous laboratory methods at the forefront of modern neurobiology. Comprises a sequence of modules focusing on neurotechnologies that are developed and used by MIT research groups. Each module consists of a background lecture and 1-2 days of firsthand laboratory experience. Topics typically include optical imaging, optogenetics, high throughput neurobiology, MRI/fMRI, advanced electrophysiology, viral and genetic tools, and connectomics. 
9.14 | Brain Structure and its Origins | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-14-brain-structure-and-its-origins-spring-2014 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Gerald E. Schneider term:Spring 2014 features:Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams and solutions, Instructor insights, This Course at MIT textbook:Brain Structure and Its Origins: Function, Evolution, Development (Schneider, Gerald E.) prereq:9.01 description:Provides an introduction to functional neuroanatomy with a focus on mammals, aided by studies of comparative neuroanatomy and evolution and of brain development. Topics include early steps to a central nervous system, basic patterns of brain and spinal cord connections, regional development and differentiation, regeneration, motor and sensory pathways and structures, systems underlying motivations, innate action patterns, formation of habits, and various cognitive functions. Review of lab techniques. Optional brain dissections. 
9.15 | Neural Circuits, Neuromodulatory, and Neuroendocrine Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-15-biochemistry-and-pharmacology-of-synaptic-transmission-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Richard Wurtman term:Fall 2007 features: textbook:Cooper, Jack R., Floyd E. Bloom, and Robert H. Roth. The Biochemical Basis of Neuropharmacology. 8th ed. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 2002. textbook:*** Laterra, J., R. Keep, L. A. Betz, and G. W. Goldstein. "Blood-Brain Barrier." In Basic Neurochemistry: Molecular, Cellular, and Medical Aspects. Edited by George J. Siegel, Bernard W. Agranoff, R. Wayne Albers, Stephen K. Fisher, and Michael D. Uhler. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, c1999. textbook:*** Pardridge, W. M. "Regulation of Amino Acid Availability to the Brain." In Nutrition and the Brain. Vol. 1. Edited by R. J. Wurtman and J. J. Wurtman. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1977, pp. 142-175. prereq:9.01 description:Examines the brain from a neuropharmacological perspective, specifically interactions governed by catecholamines, monoamines, neuropeptides, and more. Covers the functional contribution of neuromodulatory systems to both health and disease, and their influence on behaviors relevant to appetite and feeding, social behavior, reward and motivation, anxiety and fear, as well as how drugs alter neural activity. 
9.16 | Cellular Neurophysiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-16-cellular-neurophysiology-spring-2002 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Guosong Liu term:Spring 2002 features: prereq:9.40 description:Surveys the mechanisms of neuronal communication. Covers ion channels in excitable membrane, single cell computation, synaptic transmission, and synaptic plasticity. Correlates the properties of ion channels and synaptic transmission with their physiological function. Discusses the organizational principles for the formation of functional neural networks at synaptic and cellular levels. Involves discussion of primary literature. 
9.17 | Systems Neuroscience Laboratory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-17-systems-neuroscience-lab-spring-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:James DiCarlo,  Kay Tye term:Spring 2013 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) textbook:[O&S] =  Oakley, Bruce, and Rollie Schafer. Experimental Neurobiology: A Laboratory Manual. University of Michigan Press, 1978. textbook:Hubel, David H. "Impulses, Synapses and Circuits." (PDF) Eye, Brain, and Vision. W. H. Freeman, 1995, pp. 12–31. textbook:Kolb, Bryan, and Ian Q. Whishaw. "How Do Neurons Convey Information?" Chapter 4 in Introduction to Brain and Behavior. Worth Publishers, 2000, pp 123–37. prereq:18.600 9.40 18.05 description:Consists of a series of laboratories designed to give students experience with basic techniques for conducting systems neuroscience research. Includes sessions on anatomical, neurophysiological, and data acquisition and analysis techniques, and how these techniques are used to study nervous system function. Involves the use of experimental animals. Assignments include weekly preparation for lab sessions, two major lab reports and a series of basic computer programming tutorials (MATLAB). Instruction and practice in written communication provided. Enrollment limited. 
9.173J | Noninvasive Imaging in Biology and Medicine | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/nuclear-engineering/22-56j-noninvasive-imaging-in-biology-and-medicine-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Alan Jasanoff term:Fall 2005 features: textbook:Bushberg, Jerrold T., J. Anthony Seibert, Edwin M. Leidholdt, Jr., and John M. Boone. The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging. 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001. textbook:Cho, Z. H., Joie P. Jones, and Manbir Singh. Foundations of Medical Imaging. New York, NY: Wiley-Interscience, 1993. textbook:Phelps, Michael E. PET: Molecular Imaging and Its Biological Applications. New York, NY: Springer, 2004. prereq:18.03 8.03 description:Background in the theory and application of noninvasive imaging methods in biology and medicine, with emphasis on neuroimaging. Focuses on the modalities most frequently used in scientific research (x-ray CT, PET/SPECT, MRI, and optical imaging), and includes discussion of molecular imaging approaches used in conjunction with these scanning methods. Lectures are supplemented by in-class discussions of problems in research and demonstrations of imaging systems. 
9.175J | Robotics | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.175J Robotics | instructors:J.-J. E. Slotine, H. Asada  prereq:2.151 description:Dynamic analysis, design, and control of robots. Forward and inverse kinematics and dynamics of multi-input, multi-output rigid body systems. Computed torque control. Adaptive control. System identification. Force feedback, adaptive visual servoing. Task planning, teleoperation. Elements of biological planning and control. Motor primitives, entrainment, locomotion, active sensing, binding models. Term projects. 
9.18J | Developmental Neurobiology | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.18J Developmental Neurobiology | 
9.181J | Developmental Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-18-developmental-neurobiology-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate / Graduate instructors:Elly Nedivi term:Spring 2005 features:Assignments (no solutions) textbook:Levi-Motalcini, R. "NGF: An Uncharted Route." In The Neurosciences: Paths of Discovery. Edited by Frederic Worden, Judith P. Swazey and George Adelman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1975. prereq:9.011 description:Considers molecular control of neural specification, formation of neuronal connections, construction of neural systems, and the contributions of experience to shaping brain structure and function. Topics include: neural induction and pattern formation, cell lineage and fate determination, neuronal migration, axon guidance, synapse formation and stabilization, activity-dependent development and critical periods, development of behavior. In addition to final exam, analysis and presentation of  research papers required for final grade. Students taking graduate version complete additional assignments. 
9.20 | Animal Behavior | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-20-animal-behavior-fall-2013 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Gerald E. Schneider term:Fall 2013 features:Audio lectures, Subtitles/transcript, Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) prereq:9.00 description:Reviews studies of animal behavior to stress major ideas and principles, with emphasis on concepts developed in ethology and sociobiology. Examines foraging and feeding, defensive and aggressive behavior, courtship and reproduction, migration and navigation, as well as various social activities and communication. Considers inherited abilities, motivational systems and motor patterns, together with influences of various types of learning. Reviews both field and laboratory studies, and considers human behavior in the context of primate studies. 
9.24 | Disorders and Diseases of the Nervous System | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.24 Disorders and Diseases of the Nervous System | instructors:M. Sur  prereq:9.01 9.00 9.09 description:Topics examined include regional functional anatomy of the CNS; brain systems and circuits; neurodevelopmental disorders including autism; neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia; neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's; autoimmune disorders such as multiple sclerosis; gliomas. Emphasis on diseases for which a molecular mechanism is understood. Diagnostic criteria, clinical and pathological findings, genetics, model systems, pathophysiology, and treatment are discussed for individual disorders and diseases. 
9.26J | Principles and Applications of Genetic Engineering for Biotechnology and Neuroscience | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.26J Principles and Applications of Genetic Engineering for Biotechnology and Neuroscience | instructors:F. Zhang  prereq:7.32 9.01 9.09 20.020 7.28 description:Covers principles underlying current and future genetic engineering approaches, ranging from single cellular organisms to whole animals. Focuses on development and invention of technologies for engineering biological systems at the genomic level, and applications of engineered biological systems for medical and biotechnological needs, with particular emphasis on genetic manipulation of the nervous system. Design projects by students. 
9.272J | Topics in Neural Signal Processing | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.272J Topics in Neural Signal Processing | instructors:E. N. Brown  description:Presents signal processing and statistical methods used to study neural systems and analyze neurophysiological data. Topics include state-space modeling formulated using the Bayesian Chapman-Kolmogorov system, theory of point processes, EM algorithm, Bayesian and sequential Monte Carlo methods. Applications include dynamic analyses of neural encoding, neural spike train decoding, studies of neural receptive field plasticity, algorithms for neural prosthetic control, EEG and MEG source localization. Students should know introductory probability theory and statistics. Alternate years. 
9.28 | Current Topics in Developmental Neurobiology | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.28 Current Topics in Developmental Neurobiology | instructors:E. Nedivi, M. Heiman  prereq:9.18 description:Considers recent advances in the field of developmental neurobiology based on primary research articles that address molecular control of neural specification, formation of neuronal connections, construction of neural systems, and the contributions of experience to shaping brain structure and function. Also considers new techniques and methodologies as applied to the field. Students critically analyze articles and prepare concise and informative presentations based on their content. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Requires class participation, presentations, and final exam. 
9.285J | Neural Coding and Perception of Sound | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/health-sciences-and-technology/hst-723j-neural-coding-and-perception-of-sound-spring-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Dr. Bertrand Delgutte,  Jennifer R. Melcher,  John Guinan, Jr.,  M. Christian Brown,  Andrew Oxenham term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes textbook:Helmholtz, H. L. F. On the Sensations of Tone. Translated by A. J. Ellis. New York, NY: Dover, 1954. textbook:von Békésy, G. Experiments in Hearing. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 1960. textbook:Evans, E. "The cochlear nerve and cochlear nucleus." In Handbook of Sensory Physiology. Edited by W. D. Keidel. Heidelberg, DE: Springer, 1974, pp. 1-109. textbook:Guinan, J. J., Jr. "Physiology of olivocochlear efferents." In The Cochlea. Edited by P. Dallos, A. N. Popper, and R. R. Fay. New York, NY: Springer, 1996, pp. 435-502. textbook:Kiang, N. Y. S. "Peripheral neural processing of auditory information." In Handbook of Physiology - The nervous system III. Section 1: The Nervous System. Vol. III. Sensory Processes. Part 2. Edited by J. M. Brookhart, V. B. Mountcastle, I. Darian-Smith, and S. R. Geiger. Bethesda, MD: American Physiological Society, 1981. textbook:Delgutte, B. "Auditory neural processing of speech." In The Handbook of Phonetic Sciences. Edited by W. J. Hardcastle, and J. Laver. Oxford, UK: Blackwell, 1999. pp. 507-538. textbook:Pickles, J. O. An Introduction to the Physiology of Hearing. London, UK: Academic Press, 1988. textbook:Evans, E. F. "Frequency selectivity at high signal levels of single units in cochlear nerve and cochlear nucleus." In Psychophysics and Physiology of Hearing. Edited by E. F. Evans, and J. P. Wilson. London, UK: Academic Press, 1977, pp. 185-192. textbook:Javel, E., J. A. McGee, W. Horst, and G. R. Farley. "Temporal mechanisms in auditory stimulus coding." In Auditory Function: Neurological Bases of Hearing. Edited by G. M. Edelman, W. E. Gall, and W. M. Cowan. New York, NY: Wiley, 1988, pp. 515-558. textbook:Kiang, N. Y. S., T. Watanabe, E. C. Thomas, and L. F. Clark. Discharge Patterns of Single Fibers in the Cat's Auditory Nerve . Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1966. textbook:Liberman, M. C., and M. J. Mulroy. "Acute and chronic effects of acoustic trauma: Cochlear pathology and auditory nerve pathophysiology." In New Perspectives on Noise-induced Hearing Loss. Edited by R. P. Hamernik, D. Henderson, and R. Salvi. New York, NY: Raven Press, 1981, pp. 105-135. textbook:Moore, B. C. J. An Introduction to the Psychology of Hearing. 5th ed. London, UK: Academic Press, 2003. textbook:Blauert, J. Spatial Hearing: The Psychophysics of Human Sound Localization. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1996. textbook:Moore, B. C. J., ed. Frequency Selectivity in Hearing. London, UK; Orlando, FL: Academic Press, 1987. textbook:Darwin, C. J., and R. P. Carlyon. "Auditory grouping." In Handbook of Perception and Cognition: Hearing. Edited by Brian Moore. New York, NY: Academic Press, 1995. textbook:Bregman, Albert S. Auditory Scene Analysis. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1990. description:Neural structures and mechanisms mediating the detection, localization, and recognition of sounds. Discussion of how acoustic signals are coded by auditory neurons, the impact of these codes on behavioral performance, and the circuitry and cellular mechanisms underlying signal transformations. Topics include temporal coding, neural maps and feature detectors, learning and plasticity, and feedback control. General principles are conveyed by theme discussions of auditory masking, sound localization, musical pitch, cochlear implants, and auditory scene analysis. Follows Harvard FAS calendar. 
9.301J | Neural Plasticity in Learning and Memory | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-301j-neural-plasticity-in-learning-and-development-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Earl Miller,  Guosong Liu,  Matt Wilson,  Susumu Tonegawa,  William Quinn term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) description:Examination of the role of neural plasticity during learning and memory of invertebrates and mammals. Detailed critical analysis of the current literature of molecular, cellular, genetic, electrophysiological, and behavioral studies. Student-directed presentations and discussions of original papers supplemented by introductory lectures. Juniors and seniors require instructor's permission. 
9.31 | Neurophysiology of Learning and Memory | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.31 Neurophysiology of Learning and Memory | instructors:K. Goosens  prereq:9.01 description:Surveys the mechanisms supporting plasticity in neurons, focusing on how it contributes to learning in several systems. Examines cellular forms of associative plasticity, including long-term potentiation and depression, metaplasticity, homeostatic plasticity, and depotentiation. Relates these phenomena to associative memory in animal systems and humans. Completion of 9.09 recommended. 
9.322J | Genetic Methods in Neurobiology | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-322j-genetic-neurobiology-fall-2005 | level:Graduate instructors:Troy Littleton,  William Quinn term:Fall 2005 features: description:Presents selected topics in which genetic analysis informs neurobiological issues, including action potential conduction and synaptic release in Drosophila, axon guidance in nematodes and Drosophila, olfaction and orienting behavior in nematodes. Studies hippocampal and cortical circuitry and function in mice, as well as genetically-determined and genetically-influenced human traits and diseases. Reviews methods such as mutagenesis, gene knockouts and transgene constructs, tissue-specific expression vectors, optically, chemically and thermally-inducible gene activation and inactivation. 
9.33 | Your Brain: A User's Guide | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.33 Your Brain: A User's Guide | instructors:M. Constantine-Paton  description:Provides students with perspective on brain functions and behaviors of particular relevance to individuals their age. Using library databases, students conduct scholarly research and compare the attitudes conveyed in magazines and newspapers with facts from neurobiology textbooks, scientific reviews, and basic research articles. Each student presents and leads a discussion on a topic related to a behavior of his or her choosing. Preference to freshmen and non-Course 9 majors; limited to 17. 
9.34J | Biomechanics and Neural Control of Movement | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.34J Biomechanics and Neural Control of Movement | instructors:N. Hogan  prereq:2.04a 2.004 description:Quantitative knowledge of human movement behavior is important in a growing number of engineering applications (medical and rehabilitation technology, athletic and military equipment, human-computer interaction, vehicle performance, etc.). Presents a quantitative, model-based description of how biomechanical and neural factors interact in human sensory-motor behavior, focusing mainly on the upper limbs. Students survey recent literature on how motor behavior is controlled, comparing biological and robotic approaches to similar tasks. Topics may include a review of relevant neural, muscular and skeletal physiology, neural feedback and "equilibrium-point" theories, co-contraction strategies, impedance control, kinematic redundancy, optimization, intermittency, contact tasks and tool use. Students taking the graduate version will complete additional assignments. 
9.35 | Perceptual Systems | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-35-sensation-and-perception-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Dr. Benjamin Balas term:Spring 2009 features: textbook:Sensation and Perception (Wolfe; Wolfe, Jeremy; Kluender, Keith; Levi, Dennis; Bartoshuk, Linda; Herz, Rachel; Klatzy, Roberta; Lederman, Susan) prereq:9.01 9.00 description:Studies how the senses work and how physical stimuli are transformed into signals in the nervous system. Examines how the brain uses those signals to make inferences about the world, and uses illusions and demonstrations gain insight into those inferences. Emphasizes audition and vision, with some discussion of touch, taste, and smell. Provides experience with psychophysical methods. 
9.357 | Current Topics in Vision Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-357-special-topics-in-vision-science-fall-2001 | level:Graduate instructors:Edward Adelson term:Fall 2001 features: description:Advanced seminar on issues of current interest in human and machine vision. Topics vary from year to year. Participants discuss current literature as well as their ongoing research. 
9.40 | Introduction to Neural Computation | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.40 Introduction to Neural Computation | instructors:M. Fee  prereq:6.0002 9.01 description:Introduces quantitative approaches to understanding brain and cognitive functions. Topics include mathematical description of neurons, the response of neurons to sensory stimuli, simple neuronal networks, statistical inference and decision making. Also covers foundational quantitative tools of data analysis in neuroscience: correlation, convolution, spectral analysis, principal components analysis. Mathematical concepts include simple differential equations and linear algebra. 
9.41 | Research and Communication in Neuroscience and Cognitive Science | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.41 Research and Communication in Neuroscience and Cognitive Science | instructors:S. Jhaveri, L. Schulz  description:Emphasizes research and scientific communication. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Based on results of his/her UROP research, each student creates a full-length paper and a poster as part of an oral presentation at the end of the term. Other assignments include peer editing and reading/critiquing published research papers. Prior to starting class, students must have collected enough data from their UROP research projects to write a paper. Limited to juniors and seniors. 
9.422J | Principles of Neuroengineering | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.422J Principles of Neuroengineering | instructors:E. S. Boyden, III  description:Covers how to innovate technologies for brain analysis and engineering, for accelerating the basic understanding of the brain, and leading to new therapeutic insight and inventions.  Focuses on using physical, chemical and biological principles to understand technology design criteria governing ability to observe and alter brain structure and function.  Topics include optogenetics, noninvasive brain imaging and stimulation, nanotechnologies, stem cells and tissue engineering, and advanced molecular and structural imaging technologies.  Design projects by students. 
9.455J | Revolutionary Ventures: How to Invent and Deploy Transformative Technologies | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.455J Revolutionary Ventures: How to Invent and Deploy Transformative Technologies | instructors:J. Bonsen, E. S. Boyden, R. Ellis-Behnke,  description:Seminar on envisioning and building ideas and organizations to accelerate engineering revolutions. Focuses on emerging technology domains, such as neurotechnology, imaging, cryotechnology, gerontechnology, and bio-and-nano fabrication. Draws on historical examples as well as live case studies of existing or emerging organizations, including labs, institutes, startups, and companies. Goals range from accelerating basic science to developing transformative products or therapeutics. Each class is devoted to a specific area, often with invited speakers, exploring issues from the deeply technical through the strategic. Individually or in small groups, students prototype new ventures aimed at inventing and deploying revolutionary technologies. 
9.46 | Neuroscience of Morality | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.46 Neuroscience of Morality | instructors:R. Saxe  prereq:9.01 9.00 9.20 9.85 9.10 description:Advanced seminar that covers both classic and cutting-edge primary literature from psychology and the neuroscience of morality. Addresses questions about how the human brain decides which actions are morally right or wrong (including neural mechanisms of empathy and self-control), how such brain systems develop over childhood and differ across individuals and cultures, and how they are affected by brain diseases (such as psychopathy, autism, tumors, or addiction). Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Limited to 24. 
9.472J | Neuroimaging Cells and Circuits | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.472J Neuroimaging Cells and Circuits | instructors:A. Jasanoff, P. T. So  description:Offers an introduction to imaging methods at the forefront of modern neurobiology.  Emphasis is placed on <i>in vivo</i> imaging in the context of neural systems research.  Specific topics covered include classical optics, fluorescence and fluorescent dyes, multiphoton microscopy, reflectance-based imaging methods, functional and anatomical magnetic resonance imaging, and molecular neuroimaging. Both applications and underlying principles are discussed, and lectures are supplemented by demonstrations of imaging techniques in the laboratory. Limited to 15. 
9.48J | Philosophical Issues in Brain Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/linguistics-and-philosophy/24-08j-philosophical-issues-in-brain-science-spring-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Alex Byrne,  Pawan Sinha term:Spring 2009 features:Guest lecture - video, Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) textbook:———. "On the Nature of Language." In Origins and Evolution of Language and Speech. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences. Edited by S. R. Harnad, H. D. Steklis, and J. Lancaster. New York Academy of Sciences, 1976, pp. 46–57. textbook:———. Reflections on Language. 1st ed. Surrey, Ashgate, 1976. textbook:Laurence, Stephen. "Is Linguistics a Branch of Psychology?" In Epistemology of Language. Edited by Alex Barber. Oxford University Press, 2003, pp. 69–106. textbook:Locke, John. An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. Edited by  Peter H. Nidditch. Oxford University Press, 1979. textbook:Keil, Frank C. "The Emergence of Theoretical Beliefs as Constraints on Concepts." In The Epigenesis of Mind: Essays on Biology and Cognition. Edited by S. Carey and R. Gelman. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1991. textbook:Laurence, Stephen, and Eric Margolis, eds. "Concepts and Cognitive Science." In Concepts: Core Readings. The MIT Press, 1999, pp. 3–81. textbook:Sharples, R. W. Plato: Meno. Aris & Phillips, 1985. textbook:Leibniz, G. W. New Essays on Human Understanding. 2nd ed. Edited by Peter Remnant and Jonathan Bennett. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Fodor, J. A. "The Present Status of the Innateness Controversy." In RePresentations. The MIT Press, 1981. textbook:Pinker, Steven. "Fifty Thousand Innate Concepts (And Other Radical Theories of Language and Thought)." In The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window into Human Nature. Viking, 2008. textbook:Cowie, Fiona. "The Logical Problem of Language Acquisition." In What's Within?: Nativism Reconsidered. Oxford University Press, 1998, pp. 205–37. textbook:Pinker, Stephen. "How Language Works." In The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language. Harper Perennial Modern Classics, 2000, pp. 74–118. textbook:Byrne, Alex. "Intentionality." In The Philosophy of Science: An Encyclopedia. Edited by S. Sarkar and J. Pfeifer. Routledge, 2005, pp. 53–82. textbook:Gallagher, Shaun. "Neurons and Neonates: Reflections on the Molyneux Problem." In How The Body Shapes The Mind. Oxford University Press, 2006. textbook:Searle, John R. "Perception." In Mind: A Brief Introduction (Fundamentals of Philosophy). Oxford University Press, 2005, pp. 259–78. textbook:Valberg, J. J. The Puzzle of Experience. Oxford University Press, 1992, pp. 19–47. textbook:Byrne, Alex. "Behaviorism." In A Companion to the Philosophy of Mind. Edited by S. Guttenplan. Blackwell Publishers, 1996, pp. 132–40. textbook:Chalmers, David J. "How can we Construct a Science of Consciousness?" In Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Michael S. Gazzaniga. The MIT Press, 2004. textbook:Nagel, Thomas. "What is it Like to be a Bat?" In Mortal Questions. Cambridge University Press, 1991. textbook:Descartes, Rene. "Meditations on First Philosophy." In Meditations on First Philosophy. Edited by John Cottingham and Bernard Williams. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:———. "The Passions of the Soul." In Meditations on First Philosophy. Edited by John Cottingham and Bernard Williams. Cambridge University Press, 1996. textbook:Chalmers, David J. "Consciousness and Its Place in Nature." In The Blackwell Guide to the Philosophy of Mind. Edited by Stephen P. Stich and Ted A. Warfield. Wiley-Blackwell, 2003. textbook:———. "What is a Neural Correlate of Consciousness?" In Neural Correlates of Consciousness: Empirical and Conceptual Questions. Edited by Thomas Metzinger. The MIT Press, 2000. textbook:Lewis, David. "What Experience Teaches." In Mind and Cognition: An Anthology. Edited by W. G. Lycan. Hoboken, Wiley-Blackwell, 1999. description:An introduction to some central philosophical questions about the mind, specifically those intimately connected with contemporary psychology and neuroscience. Discussions focus on arguments over innate concepts; 'mental images' as pictures in the head; whether color is in the mind or in the world; and whether there can be a science of consciousness. Explains the relevant parts of psychology and neuroscience as the subject proceeds. 
9.50 | Research in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.50 Research in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | prereq:9.00 description:Laboratory research in brain and cognitive science, using physiological, anatomical, pharmacological, developmental, behavioral, and computational methods. Each student carries out an experimental study under the direction of a member of the faculty. Project must be approved in advance by the faculty supervisor and the Director of the Undergraduate Program. Written presentation of results is required. 
9.520 | Statistical Learning Theory and Applications | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-520-statistical-learning-theory-and-applications-spring-2006 | level:Graduate instructors:Tomaso Poggio term:Spring 2006 features:Selected lecture notes textbook:Vapnik, V. The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1995. textbook:———. Statistical Learning Theory. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, 1998. textbook:Devroye, L., L. Gyorfi, and G. Lugosi. A Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition. New York, NY: Springer, 1997. textbook:Cristianini, N., and J. Shawe-Taylor. Introduction To Support Vector Machines. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2000. prereq:6.041 18.06 6.867 description:Provides students with the knowledge needed to use and develop advanced machine learning solutions to challenging problems. Covers foundations and recent advances of machine learning in the framework of statistical learning theory. Focuses on regularization techniques key to high-dimensional supervised learning. Starting from classical methods such as regularization networks and support vector machines, addresses state-of-the-art techniques based on principles such as geometry or sparsity, and discusses a variety of algorithms for supervised learning, feature selection, structured prediction, and multitask learning. Also focuses on unsupervised learning of data representations, with an emphasis on hierarchical (deep) architectures. 
9.523 | Aspects of Computational Theory of Intelligence | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.523 Aspects of Computational Theory of Intelligence | instructors:T. Poggio, S. Ullman, E. Hildreth  description:Integrates neuroscience, cognitive and computer science to explore the nature of intelligence, how it is produced by the brain, and how it can be replicated in machines. Discusses an array of current research connected through an overarching theme of how it contributes to a computational account of how humans analyze dynamic visual imagery to understand objects and actions in the world. 
9.54 | Computational Aspects of Biological Learning | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.54 Computational Aspects of Biological Learning | instructors:T. Poggio, S. Ullman  prereq:9.40 description:Takes a computational approach to learning in the brain by neurons and synapses. Examines supervised and unsupervised learning as well as possible biological substrates, including Hebb synapses and the related topics of Oja flow and principal components analysis. Discusses hypothetical computational primitives in the nervous system, and the implications for unsupervised learning algorithms underlying the development of tuning properties of cortical neurons. Also focuses on a broad class of biologically plausible learning strategies. 
9.56J | Abnormal Language | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-56j-abnormal-language-fall-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Mr. Christopher Hirsch,  Ken Wexler term:Fall 2004 features: textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 4, "The Emergence of Syntax." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, pp. 101-150. textbook:Wexler, Kenneth. "Optional Infinitives, Head Movement and the Economy of Derivations." Chapter 14 in Verb Movement. Edited by David Lightfoot, and Norbert Hornstein. Cambridge; New York, NY, USA: Cambridge University Press, 1994, pp. 305-350. textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 8, "Acquisition of Binding Principles." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, Part 1. textbook:———. Chapter 8, "Acquisition of Binding Principles." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002, Part 2. textbook:Guasti, Maria T. Chapter 7, "Acquisition of A-Movement." Language Acquisition: the growth of grammar. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2002. textbook:Borer, Hagit, and Kenneth Wexler. "The Maturation of Syntax." In Parameter Setting. Edited by Thomas Roeper, and Edwin Williams. Dordrecht, Boston: D. Reidel Pub. Co., and Norwell; MA: Sold and distributed in the U.S.A. and Canada by Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1987. pp. 123-172. textbook:Fowler, A. E., Gelman, R., and Gleitman, L. R. "The course of language learning in children with Down Syndrome." In Tager-Flusberg, Helen, ed. Constraints on language acquisition: studies of atypical populations. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 91-140. textbook:Bellugi, U., S. Marks, A. Bihrle, and H. Sabo. "Dissociation Between Language and Cognitive Functions in Williams Syndrome." In Spatial Cognition: Brain Bases and Development. Edited by Joan Stiles-Davis, Mark Kritchevsky, and Ursula Bellugi. Hillsdale, NJ: L. Erlbaum Associates, 1988, pp. 177-189. Spatial Cognition Workshop (1984: Salk Institute for Biological Studies). prereq:24.900 description:Introduction to the linguistic study of language pathology, concentrating on experimental approaches and theoretical explanations. Discussion of Specific Language Impairment, Down syndrome, William's syndrome, autism, normal aging, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, hemispherectomy, and aphasia. Focuses on the comparison of linguistic abilities among these syndromes, while drawing clear comparisons with first- and second-language acquisition. Topics include the lexicon, morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics. Relates the lost linguistic abilities in these syndromes to properties of the brain. 
9.583J | Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Data Acquisition and Analysis | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.583J Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging: Data Acquisition and Analysis | instructors:S. Whitfield-Gabrieli, J. Polimeni, A. Yendiki  prereq:18.06 18.05 description:Provides background necessary for designing, conducting, and interpreting fMRI studies in the human brain. Covers in depth the physics of image encoding, mechanisms of anatomical and functional contrasts, the physiological basis of fMRI signals, cerebral hemodynamics, and neurovascular coupling. Also covers design methods for stimulus-, task-driven and resting-state experiments, as well as workflows for model-based and data-driven analysis methods for data. Instruction in brain structure analysis and surface- and region-based analyses. Laboratory sessions include data acquisition sessions at the 3 Tesla MRI scanner at MIT and the Connectom and 7 Tesla scanners at the MGH/HST Martinos Center, as well as hands-on data analysis workshops. Introductory or college-level neurobiology, physics, and signal processing are helpful. 
9.59J | Laboratory in Psycholinguistics | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-59j-psycholinguistics-spring-2005 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Edward Gibson term:Spring 2005 features:Selected lecture notes textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 4. textbook:Lasnik, H. "The forms of sentences." In An Invitation to Cognitive Science: Language. Vol. 1. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 283-310. textbook:Wolf, F., and E. Gibson. "Parsing: Overview." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Gibson, E. "Linguistic complexity in sentence comprehension." In  Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002, pp. 1137-1141. textbook:Trueswell, J. C., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Toward a lexicalist framework of constraint based syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 155-180. textbook:Gibson, E. "The dependency locality theory: A distance-based theory of linguistic complexity." In Image, Language, Brain. Edited by Y. Miyashita, A. Marantz, and W. O'Neil. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2000, pp. 95-126. textbook:Spivey-Knowlton, M., and M. K. Tanenhaus. "Referential context and syntactic ambiguity resolution." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 415-439. textbook:Jurafsky, D., and J. H. Martin. Speech and Language Processing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2000, chapter 18. textbook:Osterhout, L. "Event-related brain potentials as tools." In Perspectives in Sentence Processing. Edited by C. Clifton, L. Frazier, and K. Rayner. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum, 1994, pp. 15-44. textbook:Ferreira, F. "Prosody." In Encyclopedia of Cognitive Science. Edited by L. Nadel. New York, NY: Nature Publishing Group, 2002. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Tartter, V. C. Language and Its Normal Processing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1998, chapter 7. textbook:Whitney, P. The Psychology of Language. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 1998, chapter 6. textbook:Gleitman, L. R., and E. L. Newport. "The invention of language by children: Environmental and biological influences on the acquisition of language." In Language. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 1-24. textbook:Pinker, S. "Language acquisition." In Language. Edited by L. R. Gleitman, and M. Liberman. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1995, pp. 135-183. textbook:Fromkin, V. A., and N. B. Ratner. "Speech production." In Psycholinguistics. Edited by J. Berko Gleason, and N. B. Ratner. Fort Worth, Texas: Harcourt Brace, 1993. textbook:Whitney, P. The Psychology of Language. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 1998, chapter 4. prereq:9.00 24.900 description:Hands-on experience designing, conducting, analyzing, and presenting experiments on the structure and processing of human language. Focuses on constructing, conducting, analyzing, and presenting an original and independent experimental project of publishable quality. Develops skills in reading and writing scientific research reports in cognitive science, including evaluating the methods section of a published paper, reading and understanding graphical displays and statistical claims about data, and evaluating theoretical claims based on experimental data.  Instruction and practice in oral and written communication provided. 
9.601J | Language Acquisition I | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-601j-language-acquisition-i-spring-2002 | level:Graduate instructors:Ken Wexler term:Spring 2002 features:Selected lecture notes description:Lectures, reading, and discussion of current theory and data concerning the psychology and biology of language acquisition. Emphasizes learning of syntax, semantics, and morphology, together with some discussion of phonology, and especially research relating grammatical theory and learnability theory to empirical studies of children. 
9.611J | Natural Language and the Computer Representation of Knowledge | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-863j-natural-language-and-the-computer-representation-of-knowledge-spring-2003 | level:Graduate instructors:Robert Berwick term:Spring 2003 features:Selected lecture notes textbook:The page numbers below refer to readings in the course textbook: Jurafsky, and Martin. Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2000. prereq:6.034 description:Explores the relationship between computer representation of knowledge and the structure of natural language. Emphasizes development of analytical skills necessary to judge the computational implications of grammatical formalisms, and uses concrete examples to illustrate particular computational issues. Efficient parsing algorithms for context-free grammars; Treebank grammars and statistical parsing. Question answering systems. Extensive laboratory work on building natural language processing systems. 
9.63 | Laboratory in Visual Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-63-laboratory-in-visual-cognition-fall-2009 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Aude Oliva term:Fall 2009 features:Selected lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions), Exams (no solutions) textbook:McBurney, Donald H., and Theresa L. White. Research Methods. 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Thomson/Wadsworth, 2004, chapters 5 and 8. textbook:Palmer, Stephen E. Vision Science: Photons to Phenomenology. 1st ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1999, pp. 668-672. textbook:McBurney, Donald H., and Theresa L. White. Research Methods. 6th ed. Belmont, CA: Thomson/Wadsworth, 2004, chapters 5, 7, 8, and 11. textbook:Wolfe, Jeremy M. "Guidance of Visual Search by Preattentive Information." In Neurobiology of Attention. Edited by Itti, L, Rees, G. and John K. Tsotsos, Maryland Heights, MO: Academic Press, 2005. textbook:Bruce, Vicki. In the Eye of the Beholder: The Science of Face Perception. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 1998. prereq:9.00 9.40 description:Teaches principles of experimental methods in human visual perception and attention, including how to design, conduct, analyze, and present experiments in visual cognition. Combines lectures and hands-on experimental exercises. Requires two experimental projects, at least one of which is conducted independently; the other may be done as part of a team. Assignments include individual reports on experimental designs, written articles, and presentations critiquing three team experiments observed in class. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Experience with MATLAB is recommended. Limited to 16. 
9.65 | Cognitive Processes | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-65-cognitive-processes-spring-2004 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Mary C. Potter term:Spring 2004 features:Selected lecture notes textbook:Cognition: Exploring the Science of the Mind (Reisberg, Daniel) prereq:9.00 description:Introduction to human information processing and learning. Topics include the nature of mental representation and processing, memory and learning, pattern recognition, attention, imagery and mental codes, concepts and prototypes, as well as reasoning and problem-solving. 
9.66J | Computational Cognitive Science | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-66j-computational-cognitive-science-fall-2004 | instructors:9.66:  
9.660 | Computational Cognitive Science | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.660 Computational Cognitive Science | instructors:J. Tenenbaum  description:Introduction to computational theories of human cognition. Focuses on principles of inductive learning and inference, and the representation of knowledge. Computational frameworks include Bayesian and hierarchical Bayesian models, probabilistic graphical models, nonparametric statistical models and the Bayesian Occam's razor, sampling algorithms for approximate learning and inference, and probabilistic models defined over structured representations such as first-order logic, grammars, or relational schemas. Applications to understanding core aspects of cognition, such as concept learning and categorization, causal reasoning, theory formation, language acquisition, and social inference. Graduate students complete a final project. 
9.71 | Functional MRI Investigations of the Human Brain | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-71-functional-mri-of-high-level-vision-fall-2007 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Nancy Kanwisher term:Fall 2007 features: textbook:Huettel, Scott A., Allen W. Song, and Gregory McCarthy. Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Sunderland, MA: Sinauer Associates, 2004. textbook:Farah, Martha J. Visual Agnosia. 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004. textbook:———. The Cognitive Neuroscience of Vision. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishers, 2000. textbook:Kanwisher, N. "The Ventral Visual Object Pathway in Humans: Evidence from fMRI." In The Visual Neurosciences. Edited by Leo M. Chalupa and John S. Werner. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2003. textbook:Culham, J. C. "Functional Neuroimaging: Experimental Design and Analysis." In Handbook of Functional Neuroimaging of Cognition Book. Edited by R. Cabeza and A. Kingstone. Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 2001, pp. 53-82. textbook:Ullman, S. "Approaches to Visual Recognition." In Functional Neuroimaging of Visual Cognition. Edited by Nancy Kanwisher and John Duncan. Oxford; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2004. textbook:Tanaka, J. W., E. McKone, P. Martini, and K. Nakayama. "Isolating Holistic Processing in Faces (And Perhaps Objects)." Chapter 4 in Perception of Faces, Objects, and Scenes: Analytic and Holistic Processes. Edited by Mary A. Peterson and Gillian Rhodes. Oxford; New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 2003. textbook:Spellman, B. A., J. DeLoache, and R. A. Bjork. "Making Claims in Papers and Talks." In Critical Thinking in Psychology. Edited by R. J. Sternberg, H. L. Roediger III, and D. F. Halpern. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press, 2006. textbook:Freiwald, W. A., and N. Kanwisher. "Visual Selective Attention: insights from Brain Imaging and Neurophysiology." In The Cognitive Neurosciences III. Edited by Michael S. Gazzaniga. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2004. prereq:9.66 9.65 9.40 9.35 description:Covers design and interpretation of fMRI experiments, and the relationship between fMRI and other techniques. Focuses on localization of cognitive function in the human brain. Students write papers and give presentations, explain and critique published papers, and design but do not conduct their own fMRI experiments. Upon completion, students should be able to understand and critique published fMRI papers and have a good grasp of what is known about localization of cognitive function from fMRI. Instruction and practice in written and oral communication provided. Limited to 12. 
9.77 | Computational Perception | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.77 Computational Perception | instructors:E. Adelson  prereq:9.00 9.65 9.40 9.35 description:Begins with a review of the experimental paradigms, findings and theories used to evaluate the capabilities and limits of human visual perception. Assesses how knowledge of human perception may be used to guide machine vision systems. Second part of the subject focuses on models in computational perception. Describes how computer vision systems can perform image analysis and synthesis; face, object and scene perception; texture synthesis, segmentation, and navigation. Introduces various simulation methods. A MATLAB-based project in computational perception is required. Limited to 8. 
9.822J | Psychology and Economics | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.822J Psychology and Economics | instructors:D. Prelec  description:Examines "psychology appreciation" for economics students. Aims to enhance knowledge and intuition about psychological processes in areas relevant to economics. Increases understanding of psychology as an experimental discipline, with its own distinct rules and style of argument. Topics include self-knowledge, cognitive dissonance, self-deception, emotions, social norms, self-control, learning, mental accounting, memory, individual and group behavior, and some personality and psycho-analytic models. Within each of these topics, we showcase effective and central experiments and discuss their role in the development of psychological theory. Term paper required. 
9.85 | Infant and Early Childhood Cognition | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-85-infant-and-early-childhood-cognition-fall-2012 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Laura Schulz term:Fall 2012 features:Lecture notes, Assignments (no solutions) textbook:Piaget, Jean. "Piaget's Theory." In Childhood Cognitive Development: The Essential Readings. Edited by Kang Lee. Wiley-Blackwell, 2000, pp. 31–47. textbook:Flavell, John H. The Developmental Psychology of Jean Piaget. With a foreword by Jean Piaget. Van Nostrand Reinhold Inc., 1963, pp. 51–71. textbook:Gopnik, Alison M., and Andrew N. Meltzoff. "The Scientist as Child." In Words, Thoughts, and Theories. The MIT Press, 1996, pp. 13–47. textbook:Chomsky, Noam, and Jerry Fodor. "The Inductivist Fallacy." In Language and Learning: The Debate between Jean Piaget and Noam Chomsky. Edited by Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini. Harvard University Press, 1980, pp. 255–75. textbook:Flavell, John H., Patricia H. Miller, and Scott A. Miller. "Infant Cognition." In Cognitive Development. 4th ed. Pearson, 2001, pp. 29–62. textbook:Carey, Susan. "Some Preliminaries." Chapter 1 in The Origins of Concepts. Oxford University Press, 2011. textbook:Woodward, Amanda L., Jessica A. Sommerville, and José J. Guajardo. "How Infants make Sense of Intentional Action." In Intentions and Intentionality: Foundations of Social Cognition. Edited by Bertram F. Malle, Louis J. Moses, and Dare A. Baldwin. The MIT Press, 2001, pp. 149–69. textbook:Cattell, Ray. "Do We Teach Children to Speak?" Chapter 3 in Children's Language: Consensus and Controversy. Cassell Academic, 2000, pp. 30–43. textbook:———. "Do We Help Children to Speak?" Chapter 7 in Children's Language: Consensus and Controversy. Cassell Academic, 2000, pp. 104–28. prereq:9.00 description:Introduction to cognitive development focusing on childrens' understanding of objects, agents, and causality. Develops a critical understanding of experimental design. Discusses how developmental research might address philosophical questions about the origins of knowledge, appearance and reality, and the problem of other minds.  Provides instruction and practice in written communication as necessary to research in cognitive science (including critical reviews of journal papers, a literature review and an original research proposal), as well as instruction and practice in oral communication in the form of a poster presentation of a journal paper. 
9.901 | Responsible Conduct in Science | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.901 Responsible Conduct in Science | instructors:M. Wilson  description:Provides instruction and dialogue on practical ethical issues relating to the responsible conduct of human and animal research in the brain and cognitive sciences. Specific emphasis on topics relevant to young researchers including data handling, animal and human subjects, misconduct, mentoring, intellectual property, and publication. Preliminary assigned readings and initial faculty lecture followed by discussion groups of four to five students each. A short written summary of the discussions submitted at the end of each class. See IAP Guide for registration information. 
9.91 | Independent Study in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.91 Independent Study in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | prereq:9.00 description:Individual study of a topic under the direction of a member of the faculty. 
9.919 | Teaching Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.919 Teaching Brain and Cognitive Sciences | description:For teaching assistants in Brain and Cognitive Sciences, in cases where teaching assignment is approved for academic credit by the department. 
9.921 | Research in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.921 Research in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | description:Guided research under the sponsorship of individual members of the faculty. Ordinarily restricted to candidates for the doctoral degree in Course 9. 
9.941 | Graduate Thesis Proposal | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.941 Graduate Thesis Proposal | description:Students submit written proposals for thesis according to stated deadlines. 
9.95 | Research Topics in Neuroscience | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.95 Research Topics in Neuroscience | instructors:P. H. Schiller  description:Lecture series that highlights faculty research in various fields of neuroscience. Each of the six lectures focuses on a specific area of brain research, delineating issues, methods, and findings pertinent to the topic. Exam administered during seventh and final class session. Pre-register on WebSIS; must attend first class. 
9.97 | Introduction to Neuroanatomy | http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/brain-and-cognitive-sciences/9-97-introduction-to-neuroanatomy-january-iap-2003 | level:Undergraduate instructors:Chris Moore term:January IAP 2003 features: description:Intensive introduction to neuroanatomy that consists of lectures, demonstrations, and interactive laboratories, including a brain dissection. No prior knowledge of neuroanatomy required, although general knowledge of brain structures is helpful. Pre-register on WebSIS; must attend first class. Limited to 100. 
9.S51, 9.S52 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.S51, 9.S52 Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | prereq:9.00 description:Undergraduate study in brain and cognitive sciences; covers material not offered in regular curriculum. 
9.S911-9.S917 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.S911-9.S917 Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | description:Advanced graduate study in brain and cognitive sciences; covers material not offered in regular curriculum. 9.S911 is graded P/D/F. 
9.S92 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.S92 Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | prereq:9.00 description:Undergraduate study in brain and cognitive sciences; covers material not offered in regular curriculum. 
9.S93-9.S99 | Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.S93-9.S99 Special Subject in Brain and Cognitive Sciences | description:For undergraduate study in brain and cognitive sciences during Independent Activities Period; covers material not offered in regular curriculum. See IAP Guide for details. 
9.THG | Graduate Thesis | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.THG Graduate Thesis | description:Program of research leading to the writing of a Ph.D. thesis; to be arranged by the student and an appropriate MIT faculty member. 
9.UR | Undergraduate Research | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.UR Undergraduate Research | 
9.URG | Undergraduate Research | https://www.google.com.hk/?gws_rd=cr,ssl#safe=strict&q=9.URG Undergraduate Research | description:Individual participation in an ongoing research project. 
