EE100 | The Electrical Engineering Profession | http://EE100.stanford.edu | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI) description:Lectures/discussions on topics of importance to the electrical engineering professional. Continuing education, professional societies, intellectual property and patents, ethics, entrepreneurial engineering, and engineering management.
EE101A | Circuits I | http://EE101A.stanford.edu | instructors:Pop, E. (PI); Schell, E. (PI); Wong, S. (PI) description:Introduction to circuit modeling and analysis. Topics include creating the models of typical components in electronic circuits and simplifying non-linear models for restricted ranges of operation (small signal model); and using network theory to solve linear and non-linear circuits under static and dynamic operations. Prerequisite: ENGR40 or ENGR40M is useful but not strictly required.
EE101B | Circuits II | http://EE101B.stanford.edu | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI); Wong, S. (PI) description:Continuation of EE101A. Introduction to circuit design for modern electronic systems. Modeling and analysis of analog gain stages, frequency response, feedback. Filtering and analog¿to¿digital conversion. Fundamentals of circuit simulation. Prerequisites: EE101A, EE102A. Recommended: CME102.
EE102A | Signal Processing and Linear Systems I | http://EE102A.stanford.edu | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI) description:Concepts and tools for continuous- and discrete-time signal and system analysis with applications in signal processing, communications, and control. Mathematical representation of signals and systems. Linearity and time invariance. System impulse and step responses. System frequency response. Frequency-domain representations: Fourier series and Fourier transforms. Filtering and signal distortion. Time/frequency sampling and interpolation. Continuous-discrete-time signal conversion and quantization. Discrete-time signal processing. Prerequisite: MATH 53 or CME 102.
EE102B | Signal Processing and Linear Systems II | http://EE102B.stanford.edu | instructors:Goldsmith, A. (PI) description:Continuation of EE 102A. Concepts and tools for continuous- and discrete-time signal and system analysis with applications in communications, signal processing and control. Analog and digital modulation and demodulation. Sampling, reconstruction, decimation and interpolation. Finite impulse response filter design. Discrete Fourier transforms, applications in convolution and spectral analysis. Laplace transforms, applications in circuits and feedback control. Z transforms, applications in infinite impulse response filter design. Prerequisite: EE 102A.
EE103 | Introduction to Matrix Methods | http://EE103.stanford.edu | instructors:Jani, T. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Chang, S. (TA); Degleris, A. (TA); Jani, T. (TA); Ramesh, R. (TA); Spear, L. (TA); Toh, E. (TA); Yen, J. (TA) description:Introduction to applied linear algebra with emphasis on applications. Vectors, norm, and angle; linear independence and orthonormal sets; applications to document analysis. Clustering and the k-means algorithm.  Matrices, left and right inverses, QR factorization. Least-squares and model fitting, regularization and cross-validation.  Constrained and nonlinear least-squares.  Applications include time-series prediction, tomography, optimal control, and portfolio optimization. Undergraduate students should enroll for 5 units, and graduate students should enroll for 3 units. Prerequisites:MATH 51 or CME 100, and basic knowledge of computing (CS 106A is more than enough, and can be taken concurrently). EE103/CME103 and Math 104 cover complementary topics in applied linear algebra. The focus of EE103 is on a few linear algebra concepts, and many applications; the focus of Math 104 is on algorithms and concepts.
EE104 | Introduction to Machine Learning | http://EE104.stanford.edu | instructors:Lall, S. (PI) description:Introduction to machine learning. Formulation of supervised and unsupervised learning problems. Regression and classification. Data standardization and feature engineering. Loss function selection and its effect on learning. Regularization and its role in controlling complexity. Validation and overfitting. Robustness to outliers. Simple numerical implementation. Experiments on data from a wide variety of engineering and other disciplines. Undergraduate students should enroll for 5 units, and graduate students should enroll for 3 units. Prerequisites: EE 103; EE 178 or CS 109; CS106A or equivalent.
EE108 | Digital System Design | http://EE108.stanford.edu | instructors:Mitra, S. (PI); Braviak, C. (TA); Lin, J. (TA); Pfeffer, P. (TA); Trost, M. (TA) description:Digital circuit, logic, and system design. Digital representation of information. CMOS logic circuits. Combinational logic design. Logic building blocks, idioms, and structured design. Sequential logic design and timing analysis. Clocks and synchronization. Finite state machines. Microcode control. Digital system design. Control and datapath partitioning.  Lab. *In Autumn, enrollment preference is given to EE majors. Any EE majors who must enroll in Autumn are invited to contact the instructor. Formerly EE 108A.
EE109 | Digital Systems Design Lab | http://EE109.stanford.edu | instructors:Olukotun, O. (PI) description:The design of integrated digital systems encompassing both customized software and hardware. Software/hardware design tradeoffs. Algorithm design for pipelining and parallelism. System latency and throughput tradeoffs. FPGA optimization techniques. Integration with external systems and smart devices. Firmware configuration and embedded system considerations. Enrollment limited to 25;  preference to graduating seniors. Prerequisites: 108B, and CS 106B or X.
EE114 | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design | http://EE114.stanford.edu | instructors:Rekhi, A. (PI); Mandal, A. (TA); Wang, M. (TA) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Differential circuits, frequency response, and feedback will also be covered. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Undergraduates must take EE 114 for 4 units.  Prerequisite: 101B. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE116 | Semiconductor Devices for Energy and Electronics | http://EE116.stanford.edu | instructors:Pop, E. (PI) description:The underpinnings of modern technology are the transistor (circuits), the capacitor (memory), and the solar cell (energy). EE 116 introduces the physics of their operation, their historical origins (including Nobel prize breakthroughs), and how they can be optimized for future applications. The class covers physical principles of semiconductors, including silicon and new material discoveries, quantum effects, band theory, operating principles, and device equations. Recommended (but not required) co-requisite: EE 65 or equivalent.
EE118 | Introduction to Mechatronics | http://EE118.stanford.edu | instructors:Gumerlock, K. (PI); Kenny, T. (PI) description:Technologies involved in mechatronics (intelligent electro-mechanical systems), and techniques to apply this technology to mecatronic system design. Topics include: electronics (A/D, D/A converters, op-amps, filters, power devices); software program design, event-driven programming; hardware and DC stepper motors, solenoids, and robust sensing. Large, open-ended team project. Prerequisites: ENGR 40, CS 106, or equivalents.
EE11SC | Dream  It, Build It! | http://EE11SC.stanford.edu | instructors:Clark, S. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI) description:The world is filled with electronic devices! There seem to be more and more all the time. Wouldn't it be cool to hack and build stuff? Bend electronics to your will? Cloud connect your own stuff? Dream It, Build It is a great place to start. Designed for folks with no experience, it will take you from zero to capable in short order. We will show you some of the worst kept secrets of how things are built and help you build stuff of your own. We'll start out with some basics about how to build things, how to measure things, how to hook stuff together and end up being able to make cloud-connected gizmos. [This is a SOPHOMORE COLLEGE course. Visit soco.stanford.edu for full details.]
EE124 | Introduction to Neuroelectrical Engineering | http://EE124.stanford.edu | instructors:Shenoy, K. (PI) description:Fundamental properties of electrical activity in neurons, technology for measuring and altering neural activity, and operating principles of modern neurological and neural prosthetic medical systems. Topics: action potential generation and propagation, neuro-MEMS and measurement systems, experimental design and statistical data analysis, information encoding and decoding, clinical diagnostic systems, and fully-implantable neural prosthetic systems design. Prerequisite: EE 101A and EE 102A.
EE142 | Engineering Electromagnetics | http://EE142.stanford.edu | instructors: description:Introduction to electromagnetism and Maxwell's equations in static and dynamic regimes.  Electrostatics and magnetostatics: Gauss's, Coulomb's, Faraday's, Ampere's, Biot-Savart's laws.  Electric and magnetic potentials. Boundary conditions. Electric and magnetic field energy.  Electrodynamics: Wave equation; Electromagnetic waves; Phasor form of Maxwell's equations.nSolution of the wave equation in 1D free space: Wavelength, wave-vector, forward and backward propagating plane waves.Poynting's theorem. Propagation in lossy media, skin depth. Reflection and refraction at planar boundaries, total internal reflection. Solutions of wave equation for various 1D-3D problems: Electromagnetic resonators, waveguides periodic media, transmission lines. Formerly EE 141.  Pre-requisites: Phys 43 or EE 42, CME 100, CME 102
EE153 | Power Electronics | http://EE153.stanford.edu | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:Addressing the energy challenges of today and the environmental challenges of the future will require efficient energy conversion techniques. This course will discuss the circuits used to efficiently convert ac power to dc power, dc power from one voltage level to another, and dc power to ac power. The components used in these circuits (e.g., diodes, transistors, capacitors, inductors) will also be covered in detail to highlight their behavior in a practical implementation. A lab will be held with the class where students will obtain hands on experience with power electronic circuits. For WIM credit, students must enroll in EE 153 for 4 units. No exceptions. Formerly EE 292J. Prerequisite: EE 101B.
EE168 | Introduction to Digital Image Processing | http://EE168.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI) description:Computer processing of digital 2-D and 3-D data, combining theoretical material with implementation of computer algorithms. Topics: properties of digital images, design of display systems and algorithms, time and frequency representations, filters, image formation and enhancement, imaging systems, perspective, morphing, and animation applications. Instructional computer lab exercises implement practical algorithms. Final project consists of computer animations incorporating techniques learned in class. For WIM credit, students must enroll for 4 units. No exceptions. Prerequisite: Matlab programming.
EE178 | Probabilistic Systems Analysis | http://EE178.stanford.edu | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Kalkanli, C. (TA) description:Introduction to probability and statistics and their role in modeling and analyzing real world phenomena. Events, sample space, and probability. Discrete random variables, probability mass functions, independence and conditional probability, expectation and conditional expectation. Continuous random variables, probability density functions, independence and expectation, derived densities. Transforms, moments, sums of independent random variables. Simple random processes. Limit theorems. Introduction to statistics: significance, estimation and detection. Prerequisites: basic calculus.
EE17N | Engineering the Micro and Nano Worlds: From Chips to Genes | http://EE17N.stanford.edu | instructors:Howe, R. (PI); Provine, J. (PI) description:Preference to freshmen. The first part is hands-on micro- and nano-fabrication including the Stanford Nanofabrication Facility (SNF) and the Stanford Nanocharacterization Laboratory (SNL) and field trips to local companies and other research centers to illustrate the many applications; these include semiconductor integrated circuits ('chips'), DNA microarrays, microfluidic bio-sensors and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS). The second part is to create, design, propose and execute a project. Most of the grade will be based on the project. By the end of the course you will, of course, be able to read critically a New York Times article on nanotechnology. More importantly you will have experienced the challenge (and fun) of designing, carrying out and presenting your own experimental project. As a result you will be better equipped to choose your major. This course can complement (and differs from) the seminars offered by Profs Philip Wong and Hari Manoharan in that it emphasizes laboratory work and an experimental student-designed project. Prerequisites: high-school physics.
EE180 | Digital Systems Architecture | http://EE180.stanford.edu | instructors:Kozyrakis, C. (PI) description:The design of processor-based digital systems. Instruction sets, addressing modes, data types. Assembly language programming, low-level data structures, introduction to operating systems and compilers. Processor microarchitecture, microprogramming, pipelining. Memory systems and caches. Input/output, interrupts, buses and DMA. System design implementation alternatives, software/hardware tradeoffs. Labs involve the design of processor subsystems and processor-based embedded systems. Formerly EE 108B.  Prerequisite: CS107 (required) and EE108 (recommended but not required).
EE185 | Interactive Light Sculpture Project | http://EE185.stanford.edu | instructors:Horowitz, M. (PI); Levis, P. (PI) description:Design, prototype, build, refine, program, and install a large interactive light sculpture in the Packard Building to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the EE department. Students may take the course for 1, 2, or 3 quarters; each quarter focuses on a different phase of the project. Topics covered include energy budgeting, communication, enclosure design, scalability, timing, circuit design, structural design, and safety. Prerequisite: ENGR 40M, or an introductory EE or CS course in circuits or programming.
EE190 | Special Studies or Projects in Electrical Engineering | http://EE190.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Giovangrandi, L. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Paulraj, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Thompson, N. (PI); Thrun, S. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wooley, B. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Yamamoto, Y. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member. Individual or team activities involve lab experimentation, design of devices or systems, or directed reading. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE191 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | http://EE191.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Moslehi, M. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pease, R. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. If a letter grade given on the basis of required written report or examination is not appropriate, enroll in 190. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE191A | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | http://EE191A.stanford.edu | instructors:Boahen, K. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI) description:EE191A is part of the Accelerated Calculus for Engineers program. Independent work under the direction of a faculty member given for a letter grade only. EE 191A counts as a Math one unit seminar course: it is this unit that constitutes the ACE program.
EE191W | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | http://EE191W.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:WIM-version of EE 191.  For EE students using special studiesn(e.g., honors project, independent research project) to satisfy thenwriting-in-major requirement.  A written report that has gone through revision with an advisor is required.  An advisor from the Writing Center is recommended.
EE195 | Electrical Engineering Instruction | http://EE195.stanford.edu | instructors:Dutton, R. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Students receive training from faculty or graduate student mentors to prepare them to assist in instruction of Electrical Engineering courses. The specific training and units of credit received are to be defined in consultation with one of the official instructors of EE 195. Note that University regulations prohibit students from being paid for the training while receiving academic credit for it. Enrollment limited.
EE205 | Product Management for Electrical Engineers and Computer Scientists | http://EE205.stanford.edu | instructors:Gibbons, F. (PI); Xu, J. (TA) description:Successful products are the highest impact contribution anyone can make in product development. Students will learn to build successful products using fundamental concepts in Product Management. These include understanding customers, their job to be done, Identifying new product opportunities, and defining  what to build that is technically feasible, valuable to the customer, and  easy to use The course has two components, Product Management Project with corporate partners, and case-based classroom discussion of PM concepts and  application. Prerequisite: Students must be currently enrolled in a MS or PhD engineering degree program.
EE207 | Neuromorphics: Brains in Silicon | http://EE207.stanford.edu | instructors:Boahen, K. (PI) description:(Formerly EE 304) Neuromorphic systems run perceptual, cognitive and motor tasks in real-time on a network of highly interconnected nonlinear units. To maximize density and minimize energy, these units--like the brain's neurons--are heterogeneous and stochastic. The first half of the course covers learning algorithms that automatically synthesize network configurations to perform a desired computation on a given heterogeneous neural substrate. The second half of the course surveys system-on-a-chip architectures that efficiently realize highly interconnected networks and mixed analog-digital circuit designs that implement area and energy-efficient nonlinear units. Prerequisites: EE102A is required.
EE212 | Integrated Circuit Fabrication Processes | http://EE212.stanford.edu | instructors:Plummer, J. (PI); Schell, E. (TA) description:For students interested in the physical bases and practical methods of silicon VLSI chip fabrication, or the impact of technology on device and circuit design, or intending to pursue doctoral research involving the use of Stanford's Nanofabrication laboratory. Process simulators illustrate concepts. Topics: principles of integrated circuit fabrication processes, physical and chemical models for crystal growth, oxidation, ion implantation, etching, deposition, lithography, and back-end processing. Required for 410.
EE214A | Fundamentals of Analog Integrated Circuit Design | http://EE214A.stanford.edu | instructors:Rekhi, A. (PI); Mandal, A. (TA); Wang, M. (TA) description:Analysis and simulation of elementary transistor stages, current mirrors, supply- and temperature-independent bias, and reference circuits. Overview of integrated circuit technologies, circuit components, component variations and practical design paradigms. Differential circuits, frequency response, and feedback will also be covered. Performance evaluation using computer-aided design tools. Undergraduates must take EE 114 for 4 units.  Prerequisite: 101B. GER:DB-EngrAppSci
EE214B | Advanced Integrated Circuit Design | http://EE214B.stanford.edu | instructors:Murmann, B. (PI) description:Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits in advanced MOS and bipolar technologies. Device operation and compact modeling in support of circuit simulations needed for design. Emphasis on quantitative evaluations of performance using hand calculations and circuit simulations; intuitive approaches to design. Analytical and approximate treatments of noise and distortion; analysis and design of feedback circuits. Design of archetypal analog blocks for networking and communications such as broadband gain stages and transimpedance amplifiers. Prerequisites: EE114/214A.
EE216 | Principles and Models of Semiconductor Devices | http://EE216.stanford.edu | instructors:Chowdhury, S. (PI); Kumar, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Noshin, M. (TA) description:Carrier generation, transport, recombination, and storage in semiconductors. Physical principles of operation of the p-n junction, heterojunction, metal semiconductor contact, bipolar junction transistor, MOS capacitor, MOS and junction field-effect transistors, and related optoelectronic devices such as CCDs, solar cells, LEDs, and detectors. First-order device models that reflect physical principles and are useful for integrated-circuit analysis and design. Prerequisite: 116 or equivalent.
EE218 | Power Semiconductor Devices and Technology | http://EE218.stanford.edu | instructors:Plummer, J. (PI) description:This course starts by covering the device physics and technology of current silicon power semiconductor devices including power MOSFETs, IGBTs, and Thyristors. Wide bandgap materials, especially GaN and SiC are potential replacements for Si power devices because of their fundamentally better properties. This course explores what is possible in these new materials, and what the remaining challenges are for wide bandgap materials to find widespread market acceptance in power applications. Future clean, renewable energy systems and high efficiency power control systems will critically depend on the higher performance devices possible in these new materials. Prerequisites: EE 116 or equivalent.
EE21N | What is Nanotechnology? | http://EE21N.stanford.edu | instructors:Wong, H. (PI) description:Nanotechnology is an often used word and it means many things to different people. Scientists and Engineers have some notion of what nanotechnology is, societal perception may be entirely different. In this course, we start with the classic paper by Richard Feynman ("There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom"), which laid down the challenge to the nanotechnologists. Then we discuss two classic books that offer a glimpse of what nanotechnology is: Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology by Eric Drexler, and Prey by Michael Crichton. Drexler's thesis sparked the imagination of what nano machinery might do, whereas Crichton's popular novel channeled the public's attention to this subject by portraying a disastrous scenario of a technology gone astray. We will use the scientific knowledge to analyze the assumptions and predictions of these classic works. We will draw upon the latest research advances to illustrate the possibilities and impossibilities of nanotechnology.
EE222 | Applied Quantum Mechanics I | http://EE222.stanford.edu | instructors:Miller, D. (PI); Lambert, S. (TA); Peterson, R. (TA); Trivedi, R. (TA) description:Emphasis is on applications in modern devices and systems. Topics include: Schrödinger's equation, eigenfunctions and eigenvalues, solutions of simple problems including quantum wells and tunneling, quantum harmonic oscillator, coherent states, operator approach to quantum mechanics, Dirac notation, angular momentum, hydrogen atom, calculation techniques including matrix diagonalization, perturbation theory, variational method,  and time-dependent perturbation theory with applications to optical absorption, nonlinear optical coefficients, and Fermi's golden rule. Prerequisites: MATH 52 and 53, EE 65 or PHYSICS 65 (or PHYSICS 43 and 45).
EE223 | Applied Quantum Mechanics II | http://EE223.stanford.edu | instructors:Miller, D. (PI) description:Continuation of 222, including more advanced topics: quantum mechanics of crystalline materials, methods for one-dimensional problems, spin, systems of identical particles (bosons and fermions), introductory quantum optics (electromagnetic field quantization, coherent states), fermion annihilation and creation operators, interaction of different kinds of particles (spontaneous emission, optical absorption, and stimulated emission). Quantum information and interpretation of quantum mechanics. Other topics in electronics, optoelectronics, optics, and quantum information science. Prerequisite: 222.
EE225 | Biochips and Medical Imaging | http://EE225.stanford.edu | instructors:Wang, S. (PI) description:The course covers state-of-the-art and emerging bio-sensors, bio-chips, imaging modalities, and nano-therapies which will be studied in the context of human physiology including the nervous system, circulatory system and immune system. Medical diagnostics will be divided into bio-chips (in-vitro diagnostics) and medical and molecular imaging (in-vivo imaging). In-depth discussion on cancer and cardiovascular diseases and the role of diagnostics and nano-therapies.
EE235 | Analytical Methods in Biotechnology | http://EE235.stanford.edu | instructors:Gould, T. (PI); Soh, H. (PI) description:This course provides fundamental principles underlying important analytical techniques used in modern biotechnology. The course comprises of lectures and hands-on laboratory experiments. Students will learn the core principles for designing, implementing and analyzing central experimental methods including polymerase chain reaction (PCR), electrophoresis, immunoassays, and high-throughput sequencing. The overall goal of the course is to enable engineering students with little or no background in molecular biology to transition into research in the field of biomedicine.
EE236A | Modern Optics | http://EE236A.stanford.edu | instructors:Zaman, M. (PI); Padhy, P. (TA) description:Geometrical optics; lens analysis and design, aberrations, optical instruments, radiometry. ray matrices. Wave nature of light; polarization, plane waves at interfaces and in media with varying refractive index, diffraction, Fourier Optics, Gaussian beams. Interference; single-beam interferometers (Fabry-Perot), multiple-beam interferometers (Michelson, Mach-Zehnder). nPrerequisites: EE 142 or familiarity with electromagnetism and plane waves.
EE236B | Guided Waves | http://EE236B.stanford.edu | instructors:Fan, S. (PI) description:Maxwell's equations, constitutive relations. Kramers-Kronig relations. Modes in waveguides: slab, rectangular, circular. Photonic crystals, surface plasmon modes. General properties of waveguide modes: orthogonality, phase and group indices, group velocity dispersion. Chirped pulse propagation in dispersive media and its connection to Gaussian beam propagation. Time lens. Waveguide technologies: glass, silicon, III-V semiconductor, metallic. Waveguide devices: fibers, lasers, modulators, arrayed waveguide gratings. Scattering matrix description of passive optical devices, and constraints from energy conservation, time-reversal symmetry and reciprocity. Mode coupling, directional couplers, distributed-feedback structures. Resonators from scattering matrix and input-output perspective. Micro-ring resonators. Prerequisites: EE 236A and EE 242 or familiarity with differential form of Maxwell's equations.
EE236C | Lasers | http://EE236C.stanford.edu | instructors:Heinz, T. (PI) description:Atomic systems, spontaneous emission, stimulated emission, amplification. Three- and four-level systems, rate equations, pumping schemes. Laser principles, conditions for steady-state oscillation. Transverse and longitudinal mode control and tuning. Exemplary laser systems: gas (HeNe), solid state (Nd:YAG, Ti:sapphire) and semiconductors. Elements of laser dynamics and noise.  Formerly EE231.  Prerequisites: EE 236B and familiarity with modern physics and semiconductor physics. Recommended: EE 216 and EE 223 (either may be taken concurrently).
EE237 | Solar Energy Conversion | http://EE237.stanford.edu | instructors:Saraswat, K. (PI) description:This course will be an introduction to solar photovoltaics. Basics of solar energy conversion in photovoltaic devices. Economics of solar energy. Solar cell device physics: electrical and optical. Different generations of photovoltaic technology: crystalline silicon, thin film, multi-junction solar cells. Perovskite and silicon tandem cells. Advanced energy conversion concepts like photon up-conversion, quantum dot solar cells. Solar system issues including module assembly, inverters, and micro-inverters. Guest speakers include distinguished engineers, entrepreneurs and venture capitalists actively engaged in solar industry. No prior photovoltaics knowledge is required. Recommended: EE116, EE216 or equivalent.
EE238 | Introduction to Fourier Optics | http://EE238.stanford.edu | instructors:Dubra, A. (PI) description:Fourier analysis applied to optical imaging. Theoretical topics include Fourier transform and angular spectrum to describe diffraction, Fourier transforming properties of lenses, image formation with coherent and incoherent light and aberrations. Application topics will cover image deconvolution/reconstruction, amplitude and phase pupil engineering, computational adaptive optics, and others motivated by student interest. Prerequisites: familiarity with Fourier transform and analysis, EE 102 and EE 142 or equivalent.
EE242 | Electromagnetic Waves | http://EE242.stanford.edu | instructors:Fan, J. (PI) description:This course will provide an advanced treatment of electromagnetic waves in free space and media.  The first part of the course will cover reflection, refraction, resonators, and waveguides.  The second part will cover general concepts in finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) computation, and students will be introduced to commercial FDTD software.  The third part will cover potentials, Green's functions, far-field radiation, near-field radiation, and antennas.  The fourth part will focus on an analysis of EM waves in matter.  In lieu of a final exam, students will perform a quantitative group project based on a technical paper or research idea.  This course will serve as a foundation for other specialized 200 and 300-level optics courses. Prerequisites: EE 142 or PHYSICS 120.
EE252 | Antennas | http://EE252.stanford.edu | instructors:Poon, A. (PI) description:This course aims to cover the theory, simulation, and hands-on experiment in antenna design.  Topics include: basic parameters to describe the performance and characteristics of an antenna, link budget analyses, solving the fields from a Hertizian dipole, duality, equivalence principle, reciprocity, linear wire antenna, circular loop antenna, antenna array, slot and patch antennas, helical antennas, wideband antennas, size reduction techniques, wideband small antennas, and circularly polarized (CP) small antennas.  Students will learn to use a commercial electromagnetic stimulator in lab sessions.  A final project is designed to solve a research antenna design problem in biomedical area or wireless communications.  Prerequisite: EE 142 or Physics 120 or equivalent.  Enrollment capacity limited to 25 students.
EE253 | Power Electronics | http://EE253.stanford.edu | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:Addressing the energy challenges of today and the environmental challenges of the future will require efficient energy conversion techniques. This course will discuss the circuits used to efficiently convert ac power to dc power, dc power from one voltage level to another, and dc power to ac power. The components used in these circuits (e.g., diodes, transistors, capacitors, inductors) will also be covered in detail to highlight their behavior in a practical implementation. A lab will be held with the class where students will obtain hands on experience with power electronic circuits. For WIM credit, students must enroll in EE 153 for 4 units. No exceptions. Formerly EE 292J. Prerequisite: EE 101B.
EE254 | Advanced Topics in Power Electronics | http://EE254.stanford.edu | instructors:Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:In this course, we will study the practical issues related to the practical design of power electronic converters. We will also explore the trade-offs involved in selecting among the different circuits used to convert ac to dc, dc to ac and back to dc over a wide range of power levels suitable for different applications. In Advanced Topics in Power Electronic, as a multidisciplinary field, we will discuss power electronics circuits, extraction of transfer functions in Continuous and discontinuous conduction mode, voltage and current control of power converters, design of input/output filters to meet Electro Magnetic Interference specifications, layout of power electronics circuits and put this knowledge in a very practical context. Prerequisites: EE 153/253.
EE25N | Science of Information | http://EE25N.stanford.edu | instructors:Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI) description:We live in the Information Age, but what is information, anyway? In 1948, Claude Shannon published a seminal paper formalizing our modern notion of information. Through lectures and lab visits, we'll learn how information can be measured and represented, why bits are the universal currency for information exchange, and how these ideas led to smartphones, the Internet, and more. We¿ll get a glimpse of information elements in other domains, including neural codes of the brain, cryptographic codes, genetic code, quantum information, and even entertainment. As a final project, students will create podcast episodes on one of the topics explored in the course.
EE260A | Principles of Robot Autonomy I | http://EE260A.stanford.edu | instructors:Pavone, M. (PI) description:Basic principles for endowing mobile autonomous robots with perception, planning, and decision-making capabilities. Algorithmic approaches for robot perception, localization, and simultaneous localization and mapping; control of non-linear systems, learning-based control, and robot motion planning; introduction to methodologies for reasoning under uncertainty, e.g., (partially observable) Markov decision processes. Extensive use of the Robot Operating System (ROS) for demonstrations and hands-on activities. Prerequisites: CS 106A or equivalent, CME 100 or equivalent (for linear algebra), and CME 106 or equivalent (for probability theory).
EE260B | Principles of Robot Autonomy II | http://EE260B.stanford.edu | instructors:Bohg, J. (PI); Pavone, M. (PI); Sadigh, D. (PI) description:This course teaches advanced principles for endowing mobile autonomous robots with capabilities to autonomously learn new skills and to physically interact with the environment and with humans. It also provides an overview of different robot system architectures. Concepts that will be covered in the course are: Reinforcement Learning and its relationship to optimal control, contact and dynamics models for prehensile and non-prehensile robot manipulation, imitation learning and human intent inference, as well as different system architectures and their verification. Students will earn the theoretical foundations for these concepts and implementnthem on mobile manipulation platforms. In homeworks, the Robot Operating System (ROS) will be used extensively for demonstrations and hands-on activities. Prerequisites: CS106A or equivalent, CME 100 or equivalent (for linear algebra), CME 106 or equivalent (for probability theory), and AA 171/274.
EE261 | The Fourier Transform and Its Applications | http://EE261.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Zhou, Z. (PI); Lambert, S. (TA); Varanasi, V. (TA) description:The Fourier transform as a tool for solving physical problems. Fourier series, the Fourier transform of continuous and discrete signals and its properties. The Dirac delta, distributions, and generalized transforms. Convolutions and correlations and applications; probability distributions, sampling theory, filters, and analysis of linear systems. The discrete Fourier transform and the FFT algorithm. Multidimensional Fourier transform and use in imaging. Further applications to optics, crystallography. Emphasis is on relating the theoretical principles to solving practical engineering and science problems. Prerequisites: Math through ODEs, basic linear algebra, Comfort with sums and discrete signals, Fourier series at the level of 102A
EE263 | Introduction to Linear Dynamical Systems | http://EE263.stanford.edu | instructors:Aggarwal, G. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Luxenberg, E. (TA); Tuck, J. (TA); Zhang, J. (TA) description:Applied linear algebra and linear dynamical systems with applications to circuits, signal processing, communications, and control systems. Topics: least-squares approximations of over-determined equations, and least-norm solutions of underdetermined equations. Symmetric matrices, matrix norm, and singular-value decomposition. Eigenvalues, left and right eigenvectors, with dynamical interpretation. Matrix exponential, stability, and asymptotic behavior. Multi-input/multi-output systems, impulse and step matrices; convolution and transfer-matrix descriptions. Control, reachability, and state transfer; observability and least-squares state estimation. Prerequisites: Linear algebra and matrices as in EE 103 or MATH 104; ordinary differential equations and Laplace transforms as in EE 102B or CME 102.
EE264 | Digital Signal Processing | http://EE264.stanford.edu | instructors:Mujica, F. (PI); Schafer, R. (PI) description:Digital signal processing (DSP) techniques and design of DSP applications. Topics include: discrete-time random signals; sampling and multi-rate systems; oversampling and quantization in A-to-D conversion; properties of LTI systems; quantization in fixed-point implementations of filters; digital filter design; discrete Fourier Transform and FFT; spectrum analysis using the DFT; parametric signal modeling and adaptive filtering. The course also covers applications of DSP in areas such as speech, audio and communication systems. The optional lab section (Section 02) provides a hands-on opportunity to explore the application of DSP theory to practical real-time applications in an embedded processing platform. See ee264.stanford.edu for more information. Register in Section 02 to take the lab.  Undergraduate students taking the lab should register for 4 units to meet the EE design requirement. The optional lab section is not available to remote SCPD students. Prerequisites: EE 102A and EE 102B or equivalent, basic programming skills (Matlab and C++)
EE264W | Digital Signal Processing | http://EE264W.stanford.edu | instructors:Mujica, F. (PI); Schafer, R. (PI) description:Writing in the Major (WIM) version of the 4-unit EE 264 theory + lab course. Digital signal processing (DSP) techniques and design of DSP applications. Topics include: discrete-time random signals; sampling and multi-rate systems; oversampling and quantization in A-to-D conversion; properties of LTI systems; quantization in fixed-point implementations of filters; digital filter design; discrete Fourier Transform and FFT; spectrum analysis using the DFT; parametric signal modeling and adaptive filtering. The course also covers applications of DSP in areas such as speech, audio and communication systems. The lab component provides a hands-on opportunity to explore the application of DSP theory to practical real-time applications in an embedded processing platform. See ee264.stanford.edu for more information.  Prerequisites: EE 102A and EE 102B or equivalent, basic programming skills (Matlab and C++)
EE267 | Virtual Reality | http://EE267.stanford.edu | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:OpenGL, real-time rendering, 3D display systems, display optics & electronics, IMUs and sensors, tracking, haptics, rendering pipeline, multimodal human perception and depth perception, stereo rendering, presence. Emphasis on VR technology. Hands-on programming assignments. The 3-unit version requires a final programming assignment in which you create your own virtual environment. The 4-unit version requires a final course project and written report in lieu of the final assignment. Prerequisites: Strong programming skills, EE 103 or equivalent. Helpful: basic computer graphics / OpenGL.
EE267W | Virtual Reality | http://EE267W.stanford.edu | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:Writing in the Major (WIM) version of the 4-unit EE 267 theory + lab/project course. This course also meets the EE design requirement. Topics include: OpenGL, real-time rendering, 3D display systems, display optics & electronics, IMUs and sensors, tracking, haptics, rendering pipeline, multimodal human perception and depth perception, stereo rendering, presence. Emphasis on VR technology. Hands-on programming assignments. The 5-unit WIM version requires everything the 4-unit version does, i.e. a final course project and written report in lieu of the final assignment.  The 5-unit WIM version additional requires participation in 2 writing in the major workshops, and weekly writing assignments. Prerequisites: Strong programming skills, EE 103 or equivalent. Helpful: basic computer graphics / OpenGL.
EE269 | Signal Processing for Machine Learning | http://EE269.stanford.edu | instructors:Pilanci, M. (PI); Bartan, B. (TA); Ergen, T. (TA) description:This course will introduce you to fundamental signal processing concepts and tools needed to apply machine learning to discrete signals. You will learn about commonly used techniques for capturing, processing, manipulating, learning and classifying signals. The topics include: mathematical models for discrete-time signals, vector spaces, Fourier analysis, time-frequency analysis, Z-transforms and filters, signal classification and prediction, basic image processing, compressed sensing and deep learning. This class will culminate in a final project. Prerequisites: EE 102A and EE 102B or equivalent, basic programming skills (Matlab). EE 103 and EE 178 are recommended.
EE271 | Introduction to VLSI Systems | http://EE271.stanford.edu | instructors:Raina, P. (PI); Prabhu, K. (TA); Strange, M. (TA) description:Provides a quick introduction to MOS transistors and IC fabrication and then creates abstractions to allow you to create and reason about complex digital systems.  It uses a switch resistor model of a transistor, uses it to model gates, and then shows how gates and physical layout can be synthesized from Verilog or SystemVerilog descriptions.  Most of the class will be spent on providing techniques to create designs that can be validated, are low power, provide good performance, and can be completed in finite time. Prerequisites: 101A, 108A and 108B; familiarity with transistors, logic design, Verilog and digital system organization
EE272 | Design Projects in VLSI Systems | http://EE272.stanford.edu | instructors:Horowitz, M. (PI); Raina, P. (PI) description:An introduction to mixed signal design.  Working in teams you will create a small mixed-signal VLSI design using a modern design flow and CAD tools.  The project involves writing a Verilog model of the chip, creating a testing/debug strategy for your chip, wrapping custom layout to fit into a std cell system, using synthesis and place and route tools to create the layout of your chip, and understanding all the weird stuff you need to do to tape-out a chip.  Useful for anyone who will build a chip in their Ph.D.  Pre-requsiites:  EE271 and experience in digital/analog circuit design.
EE276 | Information Theory | http://EE276.stanford.edu | instructors:Weissman, T. (PI) description:(Formerly EE 376A.) Project-based course about how to measure, represent, and communicate information effectively. Why bits have become the universal currency for information exchange. How information theory bears on the design and operation of modern-day systems such as smartphones and the Internet. The role of entropy and mutual information in data compression, communication, and inference. Practical compressors and error correcting codes. The information theoretic way of thinking. Relations and applications to probability, statistics, machine learning, biological and artificial neural networks, genomics, quantum information, and blockchains. Prerequisite: a first undergraduate course in probability.
EE278 | Introduction to Statistical Signal Processing | http://EE278.stanford.edu | instructors:Prabhakar, B. (PI); Tolunay, M. (PI); Ghalayini, A. (TA) description:Review of basic probability and random variables. Random vectors and processes; convergence and limit theorems; IID, independent increment, Markov, and Gaussian random processes; stationary random processes; autocorrelation and power spectral density; mean square error estimation, detection, and linear estimation. Formerly EE 278B. Prerequisites: EE178 and linear systems and Fourier transforms at the level of EE102A,B or EE261.
EE282 | Computer Systems Architecture | http://EE282.stanford.edu | instructors:Kozyrakis, C. (PI) description:Course focuses on how to build modern computing systems, namely notebooks, smartphones, and data centers, covering primarily their hardware architecture and certain system software aspects. For each system class, we cover the system architecture, processor technology, advanced memory hierarchy and I/O organization, power and energy management, and reliability. We will also cover topics such as interactions with system software, virtualization, solid state storage, and security. The programming assignments allow students to explore performance/energy tradeoffs when using heterogeneous hardware resources on smartphone devices. Prerequisite: EE108B. Recommended: CS 140.
EE284 | Introduction to Computer Networks | http://EE284.stanford.edu | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI); Poole, M. (TA) description:Structure and components of computer networks; functions and services; packet switching; layered architectures; OSI reference model; physical layer; data link layer; error control; window flow control; media access control protocols used in local area networks (Ethernet, Token Ring, FDDI) and satellite networks; network layer (datagram service, virtual circuit service, routing, congestion control, Internet Protocol); transport layer (UDP, TCP); application layer.
EE284A | Introduction to Internet of Things | http://EE284A.stanford.edu | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Internet of Things (IoT) origin, vision and definition. Application domains, use case scenarios and value propositions. Functional blocks of IoT systems: devices, communications, services, management, security, and application. Architectural reference model and design methodology. IoT Devices: sensors, actuators and embedded systems. Communications aspects of IoT systems: Internet infrastructure; wireless local area networks; radio access networks; wireless personal area networks; wireless sensor networks; wireless communication in vehicular environments; 5G. Current IoT frameworks and underlying architectures. Data storage and analytics. Web services. IoT system management tools. Security aspects of IoT systems. Open issues.
EE290A | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | http://EE290A.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Pham, R. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290B | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | http://EE290B.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Pham, R. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290C | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | http://EE290C.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Pham, R. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290D | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | http://EE290D.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Pham, R. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent.
EE290E | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | http://EE290E.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Pham, R. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: for 290B, EE MS and PhD students who have received a Satisfactory ("S") grade in EE290A; for 290C, EE PhD degree candidacy and an "S" grade in EE 290B; for 290D, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290C and instructor consent; for 290E, EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290D and instructor consent.
EE290F | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | http://EE290F.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Pham, R. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290E and instructor consent.
EE290G | Curricular Practical Training for Electrical Engineers | http://EE290G.stanford.edu | instructors:Osgood, B. (PI); Pham, R. (GP) description:For EE majors who need work experience as part of their program of study. Final report required. Prerequisites: EE PhD degree candidacy, an "S" grade in EE 290F and instructor consent.
EE292A | Electronic Design Automation | http://EE292A.stanford.edu | instructors:Camposano, R. (PI); Domic, A. (PI); Groeneveld, P. (PI); Oliver, L. (TA) description:The class teaches cutting-edge optimization and analysis algorithms for the design of complex digital integrated circuits and their use in designing machine learning hardware. It provides working knowledge of the key technologies in Electronic Design Automation (EDA), focusing on synthesis, placement and routing algorithms that perform the major transformations between levels of abstraction and get a design ready to be fabricated. As an example, the design of a convolutional neural network (CNN) for basic image recognition illustrates the interaction between hardware and software for machine learning. It will be implemented on a state-of-the-art FPGA board. Prerequisite: EE 108.
EE292C | Chemical Vapor Deposition and Epitaxy for Integrated Circuits and Nanostructures | http://EE292C.stanford.edu | instructors:Kamins, T. (PI) description:Fundamental aspects of CVD are initially considered, first focusing on processes occurring in the gas phase and then on those occurring on the surface.  Qualitative understanding is emphasized, with minimal use of equations.  Adding energy both thermally and by using a plasma is discussed; atomic-layer deposition is briefly considered.  Examples of CVD equipment are examined.  The second portion of the tutorial examines layers deposited by CVD.  The focus is on group IV semiconductors ¿ especially epitaxial and heteroepitaxial deposition, in which the crystal structure of the depositing layer is related to that of the substrate.  Polycrystalline silicon and the IC interconnect system are then discussed.  Finally, the use of high-density plasmas for rapid gap filling is contrasted with alternative CVD dielectric deposition processes.
EE292E | Seminar Series for Image Systems Engineering | http://EE292E.stanford.edu | instructors:Farrell, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Wandell, B. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:Seminar. For engineering students interested in camera and display engineering, computer vision, and computational imaging. Speakers include Stanford faculty and research scientists as well as industry professionals, mostly from consumer electronics companies.
EE292H | Engineering, Entrepreneurship & Climate Change | http://EE292H.stanford.edu | instructors:Field, L. (PI) description:The purpose of this seminar series course is to help students and professionals develop the tools to apply the engineering and entrepreneurial mindset to problems that stem from climate change, in order to consider and evaluate possible stabilizing, remedial and adaptive approaches. This course is not a crash course on climate change or policy. Instead we will focus on learning about and discussing the climate problems that seem most tractable to these approaches. Each week Dr. Field and/or a guest speaker will lead a short warm-up discussion/activity and then deliver a talk in his/her area of expertise. We will wrap up with small-group and full-class discussions of related challenges/opportunities and possible engineering-oriented solutions. Class members are asked to do background reading before each class, to submit a question before each lecture, and to do in-class brainstorming. May be repeated for credit.
EE292I | Insanely Great Products: How do they get built? | http://EE292I.stanford.edu | instructors:Obershaw, D. (PI) description:Great products emerge from a sometimes conflict-laden process of collaboration between different functions within companies. This Seminar seeks to demystify this process via case-studies of successful products and companies. Engineering management and businesspeople will share their experiences in discussion with students. Previous companies profiled: Apple, Intel, Facebook, and Genentech -- to name a few. Previous guests include: Jon Rubinstein (NeXT, Apple, Palm), Diane Greene (VMware), and Ted Hoff (Intel). Pre-requisites: None
EE292T | SmartGrids and Advanced Power Systems Seminar | http://EE292T.stanford.edu | instructors:Rajagopal, R. (PI) description:A series of seminar and lectures focused on power engineering. Renowned researchers from universities and national labs will deliver bi-weekly seminars on the state of the art of power system engineering. Seminar topics may include: power system analysis and simulation, control and stability, new market mechanisms, computation challenges and solutions, detection and estimation, and the role of communications in the grid. The instructors will cover relevant background materials in the in-between weeks. The seminars are planned to continue throughout the next academic year, so the course may be repeated for credit.
EE292X | Battery Systems for Transportation and GridnServices | http://EE292X.stanford.edu | instructors:El Gamal, A. (PI); Rajagopal, R. (PI); Navidi, T. (TA) description:Driven by high-capacity battery systems, electrification is transforming mobility solutions and the grid that powers them. This course provides an introduction to battery systems for transportation and grid services: cell technologies, topology selection, thermal and aging management, safety monitoring, AC and DC charging, and operation control/optimization. Invited experts introduce students to the state¿of¿theart of each topic. The course is aimed at mezzanine and graduate levels students who wish to design battery systems, model them from data, integrate them into applications, or just learn about them. It can be taken for 1 unit (Credit/no Credit) for attending seminars, or for 3 units (letter grade only) for also doing an optional project. Prerequisites: No prerequisites needed for taking the course for 1 unit. Relevant background in selected project area is recommended, for example, CEE 272R for grid applications; EE 253 for AC or DC charging and battery controller design; CEE 322, CS 229 or EE 104 for data-based projects.
EE293 | Energy storage and conversion: Solar Cells, Fuel Cells, Batteries and Supercapacitors | http://EE293.stanford.edu | instructors:Onori, S. (PI); Allam, A. (TA) description:This course provides an introduction and engineering exposure to energy storage and conversion systems and will cover the basic physics, chemistry and electrochemistry of solar cells, fuel cells, batteries and supercapacitors, state of the art of such technologies and recent developments. The course will also cover experimental methods and modeling tools for simulation and optimization aimed at characterizing efficiency and performance issues.  Prerequisites: Equivalent coursework in thermodynamics, electronic properties, chemical principles, electricity, and magnetism.
EE293B | Fundamentals of Energy Processes | http://EE293B.stanford.edu | instructors:Horne, R. (PI); Kovscek, A. (PI); Orsini, R. (TA); Von Wald, G. (TA) description:For seniors and graduate students. Covers scientific and engineering fundamentals of renewable energy processes involving heat.  Thermodynamics, heat engines, solar thermal, geothermal, biomass. Recommended: MATH 19-21; PHYSICS 41, 43, 45
EE300 | Master's Thesis and Thesis Research | http://EE300.stanford.edu | instructors:Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Pilanci, M. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Raina, P. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:Independent work under the direction of a department faculty. Written thesis required for final letter grade. The continuing grade 'N' is given in quarters prior to thesis submission. See 390 if a letter grade is not appropriate. Course may be repeated for credit.
EE301 | Introductory Research Seminar in Electrical Engineering | http://EE301.stanford.edu | instructors:Prabhakar, B. (PI) description:The EE 301 seminar course is offered each Autumn Quarter primarily for incoming EE PhD students. All students and faculty in the Department are welcome to attend. EE faculty members present seminars on their research, giving new PhD students an overview of research opportunities across the Department.
EE303 | Autonomous Implantable Systems | http://EE303.stanford.edu | instructors:Poon, A. (PI) description:Integrating electronics with sensing, stimulation, and locomotion capabilities into the body will allow us to restore or enhance physiological functions.  In order to be able to insert these electronics into the body, energy source is a major obstacle.  This course focuses on the analysis and design of wirelessly powered catheter-deliverable electronics.  Emphases will be on the interaction between human and electromagnetic fields in order to transfer power to the embedded electronics via electromagnetic fields, power harvesting circuitry, electrical-tissue interface, and sensing and actuating frontend designs.  Prerequisites: EE 252 or equivalent.
EE310 | SystemX: Ubiquitous Sensing, Computing and Communication Seminar | http://EE310.stanford.edu | instructors:Candelaria, J. (PI) description:This is a seminar course with invited speakers. Sponsored by Stanford's SystemX Alliance, the talks will cover emerging topics in contemporary hardware/software systems design. Special focus will be given to the key building blocks of sensors, processing elements and wired/wireless communications, as well as their foundations in semiconductor technology, SoC construction, and physical assembly as informed by the SystemX Focus Areas.  The seminar will draw upon distinguished engineering speakers from both industry and academia who are involved at all levels of the technology stack and the applications that are now becoming possible. May be repeat for credit
EE311 | Advanced Integrated Circuits Technology | http://EE311.stanford.edu | instructors:Saraswat, K. (PI) description:What are the practical and fundamental limits to the evolution of the technology of modern MOS devices and interconnects? How are modern devices and circuits fabricated and what future changes are likely? Advanced techniques and models of MOS devices and back-end (interconnect and contact) processing. What are future device structures and materials to maintain progress in integrated electronics? MOS front-end and back-end process integration. Prerequisites: EE 216 or equivalent. Recommended: EE 212.
EE312 | Integrated Circuit Fabrication Laboratory | http://EE312.stanford.edu | instructors:Saraswat, K. (PI) description:Formerly EE 410. Fabrication, simulation, and testing of a  submicron CMOS process. Practical aspects of IC fabrication including silicon wafer cleaning, photolithography, etching, oxidation, diffusion, ion implantation, chemical vapor deposition, physical sputtering, and electrical testing. Students also simulate the CMOS process using process simulator TSUPREM4 of the structures and electrical parameters that should result from the process flow. Taught in the Stanford Nanofabrication Facility (SNF). Preference to students pursuing doctoral research program requiring SNF facilities. Enrollment limited to 20. Prerequisites: EE 212, EE 216, or consent of instructor.
EE315 | Analog-Digital Interface Circuits | http://EE315.stanford.edu | instructors:Muratore, D. (PI); Villamizar, D. (TA) description:Analysis and design of circuits and circuit architectures for signal conditioning and data conversion. Fundamental circuit elements such as operational transconductance amplifiers, active filters, sampling circuits, switched capacitor stages and voltage comparators. Sensor interfaces for micro-electromechanical and biomedical applications. Nyquist and oversampling A/D and D/A converters. Prerequisite: EE 214B.
EE317 | Special Topics on Wide Bandgap Materials and Devices | http://EE317.stanford.edu | instructors:Chowdhury, S. (PI) description:Wide-bandgap (WBG) semiconductors present a pathway to push the limits of efficiency in optoelectronics and electronics enabling significant energy savings, offering new and compact architecture, and more functionality. We will first study the examples set by GaN and SiC in lighting, radiofrequency and power applications, then use it to explore new materials like Ga2O3, AlN and diamond to understand their potential to drive the future semiconductor industry. The term papers will include a short project that may require simulation to conduct device design and analysis. Prerequisites: EE 216 or EE 218
EE323 | Energy in Electronics | http://EE323.stanford.edu | instructors:Pop, E. (PI) description:EE 323 examines energy in modern nanoelectronics, from fundamentals to systems. Fundamental topics include energy storage and transfer via electrons and phonons, ballistic limits of current and heat, meso- to macroscale mobility and thermal conductivity. Applied topics include power in nanoscale devices (1D nanotubes and nanowires, 2D materials, 3D silicon CMOS, resistive memory and interconnects), circuit leakage, temperature measurements, thermoelectric energy conversion, and thermal challenges in densely integrated systems. Basic knowledge of semiconductors, transistors, and Matlab (or similar) are recommended.
EE329 | The Electronic Structure of Surfaces and Interfaces | http://EE329.stanford.edu | instructors:Pianetta, P. (PI) description:Physical concepts and phenomena for surface science techniques probing the electronic and chemical structure of surfaces, interfaces and nanomaterials. Microscopic and atomic models of microstructures; applications including semiconductor device technology, catalysis and energy. Physical processes of UV and X-ray photoemission spectroscopy, Auger electron spectroscopy, surface EXAFS, low energy electron diffraction, electron/photon stimulated ion desorption, scanning tunneling spectroscopy, ion scattering, energy loss spectroscopy and related imaging methods; and experimental aspects of these surface science techniques. Prerequisites: PHYSICS 70 and MATSCI 199/209, or consent of instructor.
EE336 | Nanophotonics | http://EE336.stanford.edu | instructors:Brongersma, M. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Ji, A. (TA) description:Recent developments in micro- and nanophotonic materials and devices. Basic concepts of photonic crystals. Integrated photonic circuits. Photonic crystal fibers. Superprism effects. Optical properties of metallic nanostructures. Sub-wavelength phenomena and plasmonic excitations. Meta-materials. Prerequisite: Electromagnetic theory at the level of 242.
EE340 | Optical Micro- and Nano-Cavities | http://EE340.stanford.edu | instructors:Vuckovic, J. (PI) description:Optical micro- and nano-cavities and their device applications. Types of optical cavities (microdisks, microspheres, photonic crystal cavities, plasmonic cavities), and their electromagnetic properties, design, and fabrication techniques. Cavity quantum electrodynamics: strong and weak-coupling regime, Purcell factor, spontaneous emission control. Applications of optical cavities, including low-threshold lasers, optical modulators, quantum information processing devices, and bio-chemical sensors. Prerequisites: Advanced undergraduate or basic graduate level knowledge of electromagnetics, quantum.
EE346 | Introduction to Nonlinear Optics | http://EE346.stanford.edu | instructors:Fejer, M. (PI) description:Wave propagation in anisotropic, nonlinear, and time-varying media. Microscopic and macroscopic description of electric-dipole susceptibilities. Free and forced waves; phase matching; slowly varying envelope approximation; dispersion, diffraction, space-time analogy. Harmonic generation; frequency conversion; parametric amplification and oscillation; electro-optic light modulation. Raman and Brillouin scattering; nonlinear processes in optical fibers.  Prerequisites: 242, 236C.
EE348 | Advanced Optical Fiber Communications | http://EE348.stanford.edu | instructors:Kahn, J. (PI) description:Optical amplifiers: gain, saturation, noise. Semiconductor amplifiers. Erbium-doped fiber amplifiers. System applications: preamplified receiver performance, amplifier chains. Raman amplifiers, lumped vs. distributed amplification. Group-velocity dispersion management: dispersion-compensating fibers, filters, gratings. Interaction of dispersion and nonlinearity, dispersion maps. Multichannel systems. Wavelength-division multiplexing components: filters, multiplexers. WDM systems, crosstalk. Time, subcarrier, code and polarization-division multiplexing. Comparison of modulation techniques: differential phase-shift keying, phase-shift keying, quadrature-amplitude modulation. Comparison of detection techniques: noncoherent, differentially coherent, coherent. Prerequisite: 247.
EE355 | Imaging Radar and Applications | http://EE355.stanford.edu | instructors:Zebker, H. (PI) description:Radar remote sensing, radar image characteristics, viewing geometry, range coding, synthetic aperture processing, correlation, range migration, range/Doppler algorithms, wave domain algorithms, polar algorithm, polarimetric processing, interferometric measurements. Applications: surfafe deformation, polarimetry and target discrimination, topographic mapping surface displacements, velocities of ice fields. Prerequisites: EE261. Recommended: EE254, EE278, EE279.
EE356A | Resonant Converters | http://EE356A.stanford.edu | instructors:Gu, L. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI) description:Miniaturization of efficient power converters remain a challenge in power electronics whose goal is improving energy use and reducing waste. In this course, we will study the design of Resonant converters which are capable of operating at higher frequencies than their 'hard-switch' counterparts. Resonant converter are found in high performance applications where high control bandwidth and high power density are required. We will also explore practical design issues and trade off in selecting converter topologies in high performance applications. Prerequisites: EE153/EE253.
EE359 | Wireless Communications | http://EE359.stanford.edu | instructors:Goldsmith, A. (PI) description:This course will cover advanced topics in wireless communications as well as current wireless system design. Topics include: an overview of current and future wireless systems; wireless channel models including path loss, shadowing, and statistical multipath channel models; fundamental capacity limits of wireless channels; digital modulation and its performance in fading and under intersymbol interference; techniques to combat fading including adaptive modulation and diversity; multiple antenna (MIMO) techniques to increase capacity and diversity, intersymbol interference including equalization, multicarrier modulation (OFDM), and spread spectrum; and multiuser system design, including multiple access techniques. Course is 3 units but can be taken for 4 units with an optional term project. Prerequisite: 279 or instructor consent.
EE364A | Convex Optimization I | http://EE364A.stanford.edu | instructors:Diamond, S. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI) description:Convex sets, functions, and optimization problems. The basics of convex analysis and theory of convex programming: optimality conditions, duality theory, theorems of alternative, and applications. Least-squares, linear and quadratic programs, semidefinite programming, and geometric programming. Numerical algorithms for smooth and equality constrained problems; interior-point methods for inequality constrained problems. Applications to signal processing, communications, control, analog and digital circuit design, computational geometry, statistics, machine learning, and mechanical engineering. Prerequisite: linear algebra such as EE263, basic probability.
EE364B | Convex Optimization II | http://EE364B.stanford.edu | instructors:Pilanci, M. (PI) description:Continuation of 364A. Subgradient, cutting-plane, and ellipsoid methods. Decentralized convex optimization via primal and dual decomposition. Monotone operators and proximal methods; alternating direction method of multipliers.  Exploiting problem structure in implementation. Convex relaxations of hard problems. Global optimization via branch and bound. Robust and stochastic optimization. Applications in areas such as control, circuit design, signal processing, and communications. Course requirements include project. Prerequisite: 364A.
EE367 | Computational Imaging and Display | http://EE367.stanford.edu | instructors:Wetzstein, G. (PI) description:Spawned by rapid advances in optical fabrication and digital processing power, a new generation of imaging technology is emerging: computational cameras at the convergence of applied mathematics, optics, and high-performance computing. Similar trends are observed for modern displays pushing the boundaries of resolution, contrast, 3D capabilities, and immersive experiences through the co-design of optics, electronics, and computation. This course serves as an introduction to the emerging field of computational imaging and displays. Students will learn to master bits and photons.
EE368 | Digital Image Processing | http://EE368.stanford.edu | instructors:Girod, B. (PI) description:Image sampling and quantization color, point operations, segmentation, morphological image processing, linear image filtering and correlation, image transforms, eigenimages, multiresolution image processing, noise reduction and restoration, feature extraction and recognition tasks, image registration. Emphasis is on the general principles of image processing. Students learn to apply material by implementing and investigating image processing algorithms in Matlab and optionally on Android mobile devices. Term project. Recommended: EE261, EE278.
EE369B | Medical Imaging Systems II | http://EE369B.stanford.edu | instructors:Nishimura, D. (PI) description:Imaging internal structures within the body using magnetic resonance studied from a systems viewpoint. Analysis of magnetic resonance imaging systems including physics, Fourier properties of image formation, effects of system imperfections, image contrast, and noise. Prerequisite: EE 261
EE371 | Advanced VLSI Circuit Design | http://EE371.stanford.edu | instructors:Raina, P. (PI) description:Design of high-performance digital systems, the things that cause them to fail, and how to avoid these problems. Topics will focus on current issues including: wiring resistance and how to deal with it, power and Gnd noise and regulation, clock (or asynchronous) system design and how to minimize clocking overhead, high-speed I/O design, energy minimization including leakage control, and structuring your Verilog code to result in high-performance, low energy systems. Extensive use of modern CAD tools. Prerequisites: EE 213 and EE 271, or consent of instructor.
EE373A | Adaptive Signal Processing | http://EE373A.stanford.edu | instructors:Widrow, B. (PI) description:Learning algorithms for adaptive digital filters. Self-optimization. Wiener filter theory. Quadratic performance functions, their eigenvectors and eigenvalues. Speed of convergence. Asymptotic performance versus convergence rate. Applications of adaptive filters to statistical prediction, process modeling, adaptive noise canceling, adaptive antenna arrays, adaptive inverse control, and equalization and echo canceling in modems. Artificial neural networks. Cognitive memory/human and machine. Natural and artificial synapses. Hebbian learning. The Hebbian-LMS algorithm. Theoretical and experimental research projects in adaptive filter theory, communications, audio systems, and neural networks. Biomedical research projects, supervised jointly by EE and Medical School faculty. Recommended: EE263, EE264, EE278.
EE380 | Colloquium on Computer Systems | http://EE380.stanford.edu | instructors:Allison, D. (PI); Freeman, A. (PI) description:Live presentations of current research in the design, implementation, analysis, and applications of computer systems. Topics range over a wide range and are different every quarter. Topics may include fundamental science, mathematics, cryptography, device physics, integrated circuits, computer architecture, programming, programming languages, optimization, applications, simulation, graphics, social implications, venture capital, patent and copyright law, networks, computer security, and other topics of related to computer systems. May be repeated for credit.
EE382A | Parallel Processors Beyond Multicore Processing | http://EE382A.stanford.edu | instructors:Di Blas, A. (PI) description:Formerly EE392Q. The current parallel computing research emphasizes multi-cores, but there are alterna-tive array processors with significant potential. This hands-on course focuses on SIMD (Single-Instruction, Multiple-Data) massively parallel processors. Topics: Flynn's Taxonomy, parallel architectures, Kestrel architecture and simulator, principles of SIMD programming, parallel sorting with sorting networks, string comparison with dynamic programming (edit distance, Smith-Waterman), arbitrary-precision operations with fixed-point numbers, reductions, vector and matrix multiplication, image processing algo-rithms, asynchronous algorithms on SIMD ("SIMD Phase Programming Model"), Man-delbrot set, analysis of parallel performance.
EE382C | Interconnection Networks | http://EE382C.stanford.edu | instructors:Michelogiannakis, G. (PI) description:The architecture and design of interconnection networks used to communicate from processor to memory, from processor to processor, and in switches and routers. Topics: network topology, routing methods, flow control, router microarchitecture, and performance analysis. Enrollment limited to 30. Prerequisite: 282.
EE384A | Internet Routing Protocols and Standards | http://EE384A.stanford.edu | instructors:Tobagi, F. (PI) description:Local area networks addressing and switching; IEEE 802.1 bridging protocols (transparent bridging, virtual LANs). Internet routing protocols:  interior gateways (RIP, OSPF) and exterior gateways (BGP); multicast routing; multiprotocol label switching (MPLS). Routing in mobile networks: Mobile IP, Mobile Ad Hoc Networks (MANET), Wireless Mesh Networks. Prerequisite: EE 284 or CS 144.
EE384S | Performance Engineering of Computer Systems & Networks | http://EE384S.stanford.edu | instructors:Bambos, N. (PI) description:Modeling and control methodologies for high-performance network engineering, including: Markov chains and stochastic modeling, queueing networks and congestion management, dynamic programming and task/processor scheduling, network dimensioning and optimization, and simulation methods. Applications for design of high-performance architectures for wireline/wireless networks and the Internet, including: traffic modeling, admission and congestion control, quality of service support, power control in wireless networks, packet scheduling in switches, video streaming over wireless links, and virus/worm propagation dynamics and countermeasures. Enrollment limited to 30. Prerequisites: basic networking technologies and probability.
EE390 | Special Studies or Projects in Electrical Engineering | http://EE390.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Pilanci, M. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Raina, P. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Smith, J. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member. Individual or team activities may involve lab experimentation, design of devices or systems, or directed reading. May be repeated for credit.
EE391 | Special Studies and Reports in Electrical Engineering | http://EE391.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Chowdhury, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Flynn, M. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Pilanci, M. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Raina, P. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:Independent work under the direction of a faculty member; written report or written examination required. Letter grade given on the basis of the report; if not appropriate, student should enroll in 390. May be repeated for credit.
EE392B | Industrial Internet of Things | http://EE392B.stanford.edu | instructors:Gorinevsky, D. (PI); O'Neill, D. (PI) description:The seminar will feature guest lectures from the industry to discuss the state of the affairs in the Industrial Internet of Things (IoT) with emphasis on existing and new Data Science, analytics, and Big Data applications. The class will address several verticals. One of them is electrical power industry, which is undergoing transition to renewables and distributed generation. Another one is aerospace industry including airlines and equipment vendors. Other verticals are oil and gas, data centers, and semiconductor manufacturing.
EE400 | Thesis and Thesis Research | http://EE400.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Emami-Naeini, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fejer, M. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishi, Y. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Pilanci, M. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Raina, P. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Sadigh, D. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:Limited to candidates for the degree of Engineer or Ph.D.May be repeated for credit.
EE402A | Topics in International Technology Management | http://EE402A.stanford.edu | instructors:Dasher, R. (PI) description:Theme for Autumn 2019 is "Edge Computing: Different Directions for Asia and the U.S.?"  Distinguished guest speakers discuss Asian and U.S. approaches to 5G network integration, federated learning, computer chips and servers for edge AI processing, and IOT systems built around intelligent clients, such as register-less stores, smart factories, autonomous vehicles, and augmented reality applications.  See syllabus for specific requirements, which may differ from those of other seminars at Stanford.
EE402T | Entrepreneurship in Asian High Tech Industries | http://EE402T.stanford.edu | instructors:Dasher, R. (PI) description:Distinctive patterns and challenges of entrepreneurship in Asia; update of business and technology issues in the creation and growth of start-up companies in major Asian economies.  Distinguished speakers from industry, government, and academia.
EE42 | Introduction to Electromagnetics and Its Applications | http://EE42.stanford.edu | instructors:Solgaard, O. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI) description:Electricity and magnetism and its essential role in modern electrical engineering devices and systems, such as sensors, displays, DVD players, and optical communication systems. The topics that will be covered include electrostatics, magnetostatics, Maxwell's equations, one-dimensional wave equation, electromagnetic waves, transmission lines, and one-dimensional resonators. Pre-requisites: none.
EE469B | RF Pulse Design for Magnetic Resonance Imaging | http://EE469B.stanford.edu | instructors:Pauly, J. (PI) description:Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) based on the use of radio frequency pulses to manipulate magnetization. Analysis and design of major types of RF pulses in one and multiple dimensions, analysis and design of sequences of RF pulses for fast imaging, and use of RF pulses for the creation of image contrast in MRI. Prerequisite: 369B.
EE65 | Modern Physics for Engineers | http://EE65.stanford.edu | instructors:Miller, D. (PI) description:This course introduces the core ideas of modern physics that enable applications ranging from solar energy and efficient lighting to the modern electronic and optical devices and nanotechnologies that sense, process, store, communicate and display all our information. Though the ideas have broad impact, the course is widely accessible to engineering and science students with only basic linear algebra and calculus through simple ordinary differential equations as mathematics background. Topics include the quantum mechanics of electrons and photons (Schrödinger's equation, atoms, electrons, energy levels and energy bands; absorption and emission of photons; quantum confinement in nanostructures), the statistical mechanics of particles (entropy, the Boltzmann factor, thermal distributions), the thermodynamics of light (thermal radiation, limits to light concentration, spontaneous and stimulated emission), and the physics of information (Maxwell¿s demon, reversibility, entropy and noise in physics and information theory).  Pre-requisite: Physics 41. Pre- or co-requisite: Math 53 or CME 102.
EE801 | TGR Project | http://EE801.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Pilanci, M. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Raina, P. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Sadigh, D. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:May be repeated for credit.
EE802 | TGR Dissertation | http://EE802.stanford.edu | instructors:Arbabian, A. (PI); Bambos, N. (PI); Boahen, K. (PI); Boneh, D. (PI); Bowden, A. (PI); Boyd, S. (PI); Cioffi, J. (PI); Dally, B. (PI); Duchi, J. (PI); Dutton, R. (PI); El Gamal, A. (PI); Engler, D. (PI); Fan, J. (PI); Fan, S. (PI); Fraser-Smith, A. (PI); Garcia-Molina, H. (PI); Gibbons, J. (PI); Gill, J. (PI); Girod, B. (PI); Goldsmith, A. (PI); Hanrahan, P. (PI); Harris, J. (PI); Hennessy, J. (PI); Hesselink, L. (PI); Horowitz, M. (PI); Howe, R. (PI); Inan, U. (PI); Kahn, J. (PI); Katti, S. (PI); Kazovsky, L. (PI); Khuri-Yakub, B. (PI); Kovacs, G. (PI); Kozyrakis, C. (PI); Lall, S. (PI); Lee, T. (PI); Levin, C. (PI); Levis, P. (PI); Levoy, M. (PI); McKeown, N. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Mitchell, J. (PI); Mitra, S. (PI); Montanari, A. (PI); Murmann, B. (PI); Nishimura, D. (PI); Olukotun, O. (PI); Osgood, B. (PI); Ozgur Aydin, A. (PI); Pauly, J. (PI); Pauly, K. (PI); Pianetta, P. (PI); Pilanci, M. (PI); Plummer, J. (PI); Poon, A. (PI); Pop, E. (PI); Prabhakar, B. (PI); Raina, P. (PI); Rivas-Davila, J. (PI); Rosenblum, M. (PI); Saraswat, K. (PI); Schroeder, D. (PI); Shenoy, K. (PI); Soh, H. (PI); Solgaard, O. (PI); Tobagi, F. (PI); Tse, D. (PI); Van Roy, B. (PI); Vuckovic, J. (PI); Wang, S. (PI); Weissman, T. (PI); Wetzstein, G. (PI); Widom, J. (PI); Widrow, B. (PI); Wong, H. (PI); Wong, S. (PI); Wootters, M. (PI); Xing, L. (PI); Zebker, H. (PI) description:May be repeated for credit.
