ACCT210 | Financial Accounting | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT210 | instructors:Beyer, A. (PI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:Financial accounting is the measurement of economic activity for decision-making. Financial statements are a key product of this measurement process and an important component of firms' financial reporting activities. The objective of this course is not to train you to become an accountant but rather to help you develop into an informed user of financial statement information. While financial statement users face a wide variety of decisions, they are often interested in understanding the implications of financial statement information for the future cash flows and earnings potential of a firm. We will focus on understanding the mapping between underlying economic events and financial statements, and on understanding how this mapping affects inferences about future profitability and liquidity. The following learning objectives will be emphasized: (1) familiarity with the transactions businesses engage in, (2) fluency in accounting terminology, (3) understanding the structure that maps transactions into accounting numbers, (4) understanding the rationale for various accounting methods, and (5) awareness of the judgment involved and the discretion allowed in choosing accounting methods, making estimates, and disclosing information in financial statements.
ACCT212 | Managerial Accounting: Base | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT212 | instructors:Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); Marinovic, I. (SI) description:This course provides an introduction to the concepts and tools of managerial accounting. The first part of the course covers alternative costing methods and illustrates how the resulting cost information can be used to analyze the profitability of individual products and customers. The second part of the course will examine the role of internal accounting systems in evaluating the performance of individual business segments and divisions of the firm.  Included in this part are topics related to the choice of internal pricing methods for transferring goods and services across divisions of the firm and the use of financial metrics for assessing the profitability of these divisions.
ACCT213 | Financial Accounting - Accelerated | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT213 | instructors:Kasznik, R. (PI); Bernard, T. (GP) description:This course develops students' ability to read, understand, and use corporate financial statements. The course is oriented toward the user of financial accounting data (rather than the preparer) and emphasizes the reconstruction and interpretation of economic events from published accounting reports. The course is geared toward students with some familiarity in dealing with financial statement information and allows for deeper coverage and discussion in class.
ACCT311 | Global Financial Reporting | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT311 | instructors:Blankespoor, E. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP) description:This course is designed to enhance students' understanding of current financial reporting issues through a detailed analysis and comparison of U.S. and International Financial Reporting Standards. The course will cover the development of accounting standards, implementation of these standards, and how to interpret output from these standards. The course highlights intermediate and advanced financial reporting topics including fair value accounting, asset securitization, consolidation including special purpose entities, foreign currency translation, derivatives and hedging, leases, revenue recognition, pensions, and equity compensation. The course also focuses on evaluating emerging financial reporting issues such as proposed financial reporting standards put forth by U.S. or international standard setting bodies. This course should help students better understand the environment governing global financial reporting and how firms develop financial statement information within this environment.
ACCT313 | Accounting-Based Valuation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT313 | instructors:Piotroski, J. (PI) description:This course is designed to develop students'€™ ability to interpret and use financial accounting information in an equity valuation context. The perspective taken is that of an outsider relying on publicly available financial information for investment purposes.  The course relies heavily upon financial statement analysis tools and the residual income framework for equity valuation.  Through lectures, in-depth case studies, and real-time exercises, the first half of the course covers traditional financial statement analysis-based tools for critically analyzing and assessing a firm'€™s current financial performance and economic condition, including ratio analysis, accounting quality analysis and financial distress / bankruptcy prediction models.  The second half of the course introduces the accounting-based valuation framework and develops the link between financial statement analysis, forecasting and equity valuation.  The capstone to the course is the completion of a comprehensive, real-time valuation of a publicly traded firm (or registered IPO candidate).  The course is structured for students to gain a deeper understanding of the economic pressures behind the valuation creation and valuation process, and will be of useful to those students who anticipate making investment or credit decisions at least partially based on historical and prospective financial statement information.
ACCT317 | Managerial Accounting: Performance Measurement, Compensation, and Governance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT317 | instructors:Larcker, D. (PI) description:The course will examine the academic and professional controversies surrounding corporate governance and executive compensation. A basic framework will be developed to integrate the many important dimensions of corporate governance in the U.S. and international settings. The institutional features of corporate governance and executive compensation will be documented using the professional business and legal literatures. In addition, the scientific research in accounting, economics, finance, and organizational behavior will be used to provide insights into the measurement and consequences of observed corporate governance and executive compensation choices. After successfully finishing the course, a student should be able to (i) understand the debates about appropriate choices for corporate governance and executive compensation and (ii) critically evaluate the implications of academic and professional research studies on these controversial issues.
ACCT332 | Mergers and Acquisitions | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT332 | instructors:Kasznik, R. (PI); Bernard, T. (GP); Catz, S. (SI) description:This course provides a comprehensive overview of accounting, economic, and financial issues related to mergers and acquisitions.  Specifically, we review the market for corporate control, discuss strategic and corporate governance issues related to firms' decision to acquire or be acquired, and examine the M&A regulatory environment (e.g., anti-trust).  We also review various pricing and deal structure considerations, and identify some of the strategies that underlay a successful negotiation.  We also review the financial reporting effects of business acquisitions and the various income tax implications of such deals.nnIn covering these and other related issues, we will discuss both the theory and practice of mergers and acquisitions. To provide some specific context we will analyze several M&A deals (e.g., Google/Motorola, HP/Compaq, UpJohn/Pharmacia, AOL/Time Warner, Oracle/PeopleSoft, and many more). In discussing these cases, we will examine the situation faced by the company, the issues surrounding the transaction, including the financial reporting implications, and focus on the managerial incentives and the judgment applied.  We will also review some of the related literature in accounting, economic, and finance, to gain broader perspectives and insights into the financial issues associated with M&A transactions. Class time comprises mini lectures that introduce some of the more technical concepts, case discussions, and guest speakers who will offer additional perspectives on the subject matters.nnThe course is co-taught by Ron Kasznik (GSB) and Safra Catz (Oracle Corporation). Ms. Catz is President of Oracle and a member of its Board of Directors. She has led Oracle through nearly 100 acquisitions in recent years (including PeopleSoft, Siebel, BEA, Sun Microsystems, and many more). Prior to joining Oracle in 1999, Ms. Catz was Managing Director at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, a global investment bank (now part of CSFB).  Ms. Catz also serves on the board of directors for HSBC Holdings plc since 2008.
ACCT333 | Taxes and Business Strategy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT333 | instructors:De Simone, L. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:The objective of this course is to develop a framework for understanding how taxes affect business decisions. The key themes of the framework - all parties, all taxes and all costs - are applied to decision contexts such as investments, compensation, and organizational form. The goal of this course is to provide a new approach to thinking about taxes that will be valuable across jurisdictions even as laws change.
ACCT340 | Alphanomics: Informational Arbitrage in Equity Markets | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT340 | instructors:Lee, C. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:This is an advanced elective course on the economics of active investing in equity markets.  The course is designed as a "start-up kit for an equity hedge fund."  We will cover some of the foundational skills needed to select and trade stocks, as well as build and manage a portfolio of public equity. nnnSpecifically, the course material is designed to improve student skills in: (1) assessing the relative attractiveness of individual companies, (2) building stock screens to filter and rank firms based on user-specified parameters, (3) trading individual equity positions, and (4) monitoring and managing portfolio risk.  nnnThis is a hands-on course with an emphasis on experiential learning. Students will make extensive use of the analytical tools in the new "Real-time Analytics and Investment Lab" (R.A.I.L.) facility in the Bass Center.  There is no final exam. However, there will be a number of individual cases and a final group project. 25% of the grade will be based on class participation, and 75% will be based on cases and projects. nnnBecause it is an advanced elective, students taking this class are expected to be well versed in core economic, accounting, and finance skills. Material covered in a second Financial Modeling course, as well as in Accounting 312 (Evaluating Financial Statement Information) and Accounting 313 (Accounting-based Valuation) will come in handy. However, none of these courses are required.
ACCT506 | Evaluating Earnings Quality | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT506 | instructors:McNichols, M. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:This course aims to develop students' understanding of the relation between accounting numbers and underlying economic activity, and to develop students' ability to evaluate the quality of accounting numbers. The course will focus on several skills essential to these goals. These include (1) understanding the process that generates accounting numbers and its implications for the quality of those numbers for decision purposes, (2) understanding the business environment a firm operates in and the firm's financial, accounting and operating strategies, (3) tools for assessing a firm's performance including ratio and cash flow analysis, and (4) identifying patterns that suggest low earnings quality and/or earnings manipulation. This course should be of value to students who expect to be in senior positions within corporations and will determine financial reporting policies, as well as those in investment banking, venture capital, investment management, consulting or public accounting. Class sessions will be devoted to a mix of lecture, discussion, group exercises and cases. The class will conclude with a mini-project where you analyze how a firm manipulated its financial statements or disclosures and identify the key clues that are visible in their financial statements.
ACCT516 | Analysis and Valuation of Emerging Market Firms | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT516 | instructors:Piotroski, J. (PI) description:This course examines the unique institutional, governance and transparency issues affecting corporate valuations in emerging markets.  Through lectures and the students' real-time analysis of an emerging market firm, this condensed course is structured for students to gain a deeper understanding of the economic pressures behind the value creation, value destruction and valuation process in emerging economies. The course focuses on critically interpreting financial and non-financial information for purposes of assessing firm fundamentals and risk in the presence of weak legal systems, strong political forces, limited investor protections, limited market development, strong macro-economic forces, opacity and resultant business arrangements.  The course is beneficial for entrepreneurs, consultants, investors and managers operating in or considering expansion to developing markets.
ACCT523 | Board Governance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT523 | instructors:Larcker, D. (PI); Donatiello, N. (SI) description:This course is focused on helping students understand the role boards and board members play in corporate governance and the lives of businesses large and small. This case-driven course is designed to help students who plan to serve on boards as private-equity or venture investors, entrepreneurs who will need to assemble and manage boards, and executives who realize they will need to interact with and answer to boards. The course is designed to help students understand the issues boards face - both routine and non-routine - through the eyes of the board member. By understanding the roles and responsibilities of board members and the mechanisms though which they exercise these duties, students will come away with an understanding of how boards function effectively (and in too many cases fail to function effectively). The course will include examining boards in a variety of contexts with a focus on three types of situations:  public for-profit companies, early-stage private companies, and non-for-profit companies of different sizes.
ACCT554 | Project in Event-Driven Investing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT554 | instructors:McNichols, M. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Casscells, R. (SI) description:This project-focused course is designed to develop students' ability to interpret and use financial accounting information in credit and equity valuation contexts. The course will focus on valuing the securities of companies undergoing significant changes as a result of litigation, restructuring, regulatory changes, mergers, spin-offs or significant industry shifts. Students will work in groups to develop a recommendation for an event-driven investment strategy. The project will feature financial statement and valuation analysis to assess the risks and rewards of the proposed strategy. Groups will be mentored by experienced investors. The course will be of value to those students who anticipate making investment decisions using financial statement information.
ACCT610 | Seminar in Empirical Accounting Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT610 | instructors:McNichols, M. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:Empirical Research on Financial Reporting: This doctoral-level course covers research on the role of accounting information in capital markets. The focus is on introducing students to key themes in empirical accounting and capital markets research, and to key research designs applied to examine information-related questions. Course topics include market efficiency, the role of accounting in providing information to investors, anomalies, alternative sources of information, accounting measurement attributes, earnings management, earnings quality, and the role of auditors in the provision of information to investors.nnThe course is interdisciplinary in nature. The readings focus on research design, and key theories, themes and approaches from the accounting, finance, economics and psychology literature. Our overall goal is not only to review existing research, but also to identify new research opportunities.
ACCT611 | Applications of Information Economics in Management and Accounting | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT611 | instructors:Marinovic, I. (PI) description:This course develops tools from information economics to study the strategic interactions between agents inside a firm and  between firm insiders and market participants. Common to these studies is that agents acquire private information that is valuable to other parties. The range of applications includes: the structure of managerial performance measures, buyer-supplier contracting arrangements, earnings management, voluntary and mandatory disclosure and financial analysts.
ACCT612 | Financial Reporting Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT612 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI) description:The purpose of this PhD seminar is to facilitate your conception and execution of substantive individual research in financial reporting. It provides a vehicle for supplementing and integrating your knowledge of basic research tools and methods, as well as an exposure to the dimensions of contemporary research in the field of financial reporting. The focus of the research we will discuss in this seminar is on global financial reporting. Such research encompasses studies dealing with contemporary financial reporting issues as well as research addressing issues relating to the globalization of financial reporting. Because these issues are also of concern to financial reporting standard setters, we will discuss whether and how the research we study informs standard setting debates. Prerequisite: Consent of the instructor.
ACCT615 | Selected Topics in Empirical Accounting Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT615 | instructors:Larcker, D. (PI) description:This course examines selected topics in accounting research.  The course features four faculty who will each give a focused look at a given area, introduce students to important questions in that area, key papers in the related literature, and critical aspects of the research designs applied in the area.  The aim is to increase student's familiarity with empirical accounting research, their ability to critically evaluate research and research designs, and to prepare students to conduct independent research.
ACCT617 | Managerial Incentives and Corporate Governance: Concepts and Empirical Methodology | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT617 | instructors:Reichelstein, S. (PI) description:The course will consist of three set of topics. The first part of the class will examine a set of applied econometric topics that are useful in empirical accounting research. Each of these topics will be illustrated using contemporary examples from accounting, economics, and finance. The second part of the class will cover some of the basic theoretical work in moral hazard agency models and various extensions to this type of research. The final part of the course will discuss the empirical literature on corporate governance and executive compensation. The course will be taught in a seminar style and students will be required to develop a series of research projects on the topics covered in the class.
ACCT618 | Market Efficiency and Informational Arbitrage | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT618 | instructors:Lee, C. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:The informational efficiency of stock markets has been a central theme in financial economic research in the past 50 years.  Over this period, the focus of academic research has gradually shifted from the general to the more specific.  While earlier studies tend to view the matter as a yes/no debate, many recent studies now acknowledge the impossibility of fully efficient markets, and have focused instead on analyses of factors that could materially affect the timely incorporation of information into prices.  At the same time, increasing attention is being paid to regulatory and market design issues that could either impede or enhance market pricing efficiency.n nIn this course, we will cover recent research on the role of informational arbitrage in asset pricing.  Our starting point is the observation that, with costly information, equilibrium prices will invariably reflect some mispricing.  The existence of mispricing introduces a role for informational arbitrage, whereby some traders will invest resources to become informed about the mispricing, with hopes of profiting from it.  We review recent academic evidence on this process, and reflect on its implications for future market-related research.  We will also discuss how academic research might help lower information/arbitrage costs.n nThis is a doctoral level course.  Our goal is not only to review existing research, but also to stimulate new work in the area.  As such, I expect it will be of primary interest to Ph.D. students majoring in accounting, finance, and economics.  Given our focus on returns prediction and the role of information in arbitrage strategies, this course should be of particular interest to those interested exploring the relation between information flows and market pricing dynamics. n nThe course content is interdisciplinary in nature, spanning finance, economics, and accounting.  Most of the readings in the earlier readings derive from finance and economics (market efficiency, limits to arbitrage, and behavioral finance); most of the later readings derive from financial accounting (equity valuation, fundamental analysis, earnings management, and analyst behavior).
ACCT691 | PhD Directed Reading (FINANCE 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MGTECON 691, MKTG 691, OB 691, OIT 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT691 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Haga, C. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
ACCT692 | PhD Dissertation Research (FINANCE 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MGTECON 692, MKTG 692, OB 692, OIT 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT692 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Haga, C. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
ACCT802 | TGR Dissertation (FINANCE 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MGTECON 802, MKTG 802, OB 802, OIT 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=ACCT802 | instructors:Barth, M. (PI); Beyer, A. (PI); Blankespoor, E. (PI); De Simone, L. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Kasznik, R. (PI); Larcker, D. (PI); Lee, C. (PI); Marinovic, I. (PI); McNichols, M. (PI); Piotroski, J. (PI); Rajan, M. (PI); Reichelstein, S. (PI); deHaan, E. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Haga, C. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP) description:
