MGTECON200 | Managerial Economics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON200 | instructors:Kreps, D. (PI); Williams, J. (GP) description:MGTECON 200 is one of two base-level courses in microeconomics. It covers microeconomic concepts relevant to management, including the economics of relationships, pricing decisions, perfect competition and the "invisible hand," risk aversion and risk sharing, and moral hazard and adverse selection. While the topics covered and the level of coverage are the same as in the second base-level course, MGTECON 201, MGTECON 200 is administered and graded differently: Attendance is mandatory, and 50% of the final grade is based on daily class participation. Because of the emphasis on class participation, class sessions are 105 minutes long and so, per Stanford University regulations, the course carries four units of credit.
MGTECON201 | Managerial Economics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON201 | instructors:Sugaya, T. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:MGTECON 201 is one of two base-level courses in microeconomics. It covers microeconomic concepts relevant to management, including the economics of relationships, pricing decisions, perfect competition and the "invisible hand," risk aversion and risk sharing, and moral hazard and adverse selection. While the topics covered and the level of coverage are the same as in the second base-level course, MGTECON 200, MGTECON 201 is administered and graded differently: 15% of the final grade is based on participation (you can miss the class without affecting the grade up to 3 times), 35% is on the midterm, and 50% is on the final.
MGTECON203 | Managerial Economics - Accelerated | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON203 | instructors:Lambert, N. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP) description:MGTECON 203 is the accelerated option in microeconomics for 1st year MBA students. It will cover the usual array of topics, with an emphasis on topics more useful for students of management (although the order in which the topics are covered will be different from that in 200/201). No previous background in economics is required or expected, but in comparison with MGTECON 200/201, less time will be spent in class on basic problems. Therefore, students choosing this option should be completely comfortable with calculus and linear algebra. A good diagnostic is to read Sections 3.5 and 3.6 (pp. 57-67) in Kreps, Microeconomics for Managers. If you find this easy, 203 is a good choice. If not, 200 or 201 is the right course for you.
MGTECON249 | Smart Pricing and Market Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON249 | instructors:Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP) description:This is the Advanced Applications option in the menu of courses that satisfy the Management Perspectives requirement in Optimization and Simulation Modeling (OSM). The course is tailored to students who already have command of basic optimization and simulation techniques, or have an advanced mathematical background that will allow them to catch up quickly. The focus of the course is on applying these techniques to a particular business domain: pricing mechanisms and market design. The pricing component of the course will handle both traditional topics, such as price differentiation, and more modern ones, such as dynamic pricing. In the market design component of the course, we will apply optimization and simulation techniques to such topics as auctions (e.g., designing auctions for selling online advertising slots) and matching (e.g., designing mechanisms for matching students to schools). No background in economics or in the pricing and market design topics mentioned above is required or expected.
MGTECON300 | Growth and Stabilization in the Global Economy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON300 | instructors:Di Tella, S. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI) description:This course gives students the background they need to understand the broad movements in the global economy. Key topics include long-run economic growth, technological change, wage inequality, international trade, interest rates, inflation, exchange rates, and monetary policy. By the end of the course, students should be able to read and understand the discussions of economic issues in The Economist, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, or the Congressional Budget Office.
MGTECON330 | Economics of Organization | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON330 | instructors:Feinberg, Y. (PI); Lion, C. (GP) description:This is an advanced applications economics course that applies recent innovations and high-powered tools to organization and general management. MBA1 students must have a strong background in microeconomics to take the course and should consult with their advisors. The course is appropriate for MBA2 students who have taken either Mgtecon 200 or Mgtecon 203. The course objective is to equip managers with an extensive set of analytical and applicable tools for handling the following topics: organization for coordination, designing incentives for moral hazard, monitoring and private information, applications to scope, scale, principles for allocating decision power, managing supplier relations, downstream controls, franchising and alliances, bargaining, high order reasoning, repeated interactions and reputation, holdups and strategizing with unawareness. These topics will be covered in a combination of lectures and cases.
MGTECON331 | Health Law: Finance and Insurance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON331 | instructors:Bundorf, M. (PI); Kessler, D. (PI) description:This course provides the legal, institutional, and economic background necessary to understand the financing and production of health services in the US. Potential topics include: health reform, health insurance (Medicare and Medicaid, employer-sponsored insurance, the uninsured), medical malpractice and quality regulation, pharmaceuticals, the corporate practice of medicine, regulation of fraud and abuse, and international comparisons.
MGTECON334 | The International Economy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON334 | instructors:Bowen, R. (PI) description:The objective of this course is to give students an understanding of what international economic policy means for business leaders. To do this, students will have to understand the economic forces that determine the patterns and consequences of international trade. We will analyze trade policy tools used by governments (e.g., tariffs, subsidies, quotas, exchange rates), and examine the role of industry and politics at the domestic and global level in applying these tools. This course will combine lecture, case studies and group interaction.
MGTECON343 | The Evolution of Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON343 | instructors:Bulow, J. (PI); Goldfield, J. (SI); Scholes, M. (SI) description:This course was originally designed to provide an overview of the crisis in financial markets that began in 2007, and of the various policies that were devised in response to the crisis' both short-term stabilization efforts and longer-term regulatory reform. However, as time goes on the course has evolved to spend less time on a historical review of those past events (though they are still significant and worth studying) and more time looking at the present and the future. We will be more focused on process --- thinking through the things we analyze --- rather than in making sure we cover a fully comprehensive set of topics. We have guest speakers for about half of the classes. The list changes from year to year, but here is 2016's list: Tanya Beder, Kevin Warsh, Ron Beck, David Booth, Jay Crandall, Tom Kempner, Katie Hall, Hal Varian, and Larry Summers.
MGTECON381 | Contemporary Economic Policy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON381 | instructors:Lazear, E. (PI); Hennessey, K. (SI); Shaw, K. (SI) description:Economic issues permeate all that happens in government. This topics-based course will examine a variety of historic and current issues on the political agenda where economics is central to decision making. It is taught by faculty who served at the White House in either the Clinton or George W. Bush Administration.
MGTECON513 | Platform Competition in Digital Markets | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON513 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:This class will analyze the economics of digital platform markets.  The class format will consist of lectures, guest speakers, and student presentations.  Concepts will be presented in the context of leading examples of internet and technology platforms such as online advertising, computing technology platforms (e.g. mobile), marketplaces, social networks, cloud computing, and financial technology platforms. The course will begin with economic definitions of platform markets, and it will review the most important insights from recent research in economic theory and strategy.  It will then consider the role of scale economies and network effects in determining the dynamics of platform competition and long-run industry structure.  Next, the class will consider key strategic decisions for firms, including entry strategies, vertical integration and exclusive deals.
MGTECON527 | Business and Public Policy Perspectives on U.S. Inequality | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON527 | instructors:Oyer, P. (PI); Mendonca, L. (SI) description:This class will analyze the growth in inequality in the US over the last several decades and how that trend is likely to continue or change in the future. We will ask if and how public policy can affect inequality. We will also focus on business's role -- what are the responsibilities of private sector companies, how does inequality affect them, and how should the growth in inequality affect their strategies? We will look at inequality in income, some of its potential sources, and its effects in other areas. Specifically, we will look at education, housing, the social safety net, migration, and the job market. The class will be very interactive and will be based on readings drawn from academic research, case studies, news, and opinion readings. We will also have guest speakers from industry, government, and non-profits. The class will be co-taught by a GSB labor economist and an advisor to policy makers with decades of business experience (see http://www.ppic.org/main/bio2.asp?i=431).
MGTECON535 | Statistics and Causality | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON535 | instructors:Imbens, G. (PI) description:Most statistical questions involving data ultimately are about causal effects. What is the effect of changing prices on demand? What is the effect of an advertising campaign on demand. In this course we discuss statistical methods for analyzing causal effects. We look at the analysis and design of randomized experiments. We also look at various methods that have been used to establish causal effects in observational studies. Students will develop the skills to assess causal claims and learn to ask the right questions and evaluate statistical analyses. You will carry out research projects and work with statistical software.
MGTECON536 | Data Driven Decision Making | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON536 | instructors:Benkard, L. (PI) description:This is a short course on data driven decision making.  The purpose of the course is to help students become intelligent consumers and producers of data analytics in the business context.  Each class meeting will consider a different case/caselet involving data and statistical analyses.  We will spend a lot of time on understanding the difference between correlation and causation, and measurement issues such as small sample problems and selection bias.  By the end of the course students will have sharpened analytical skills, and will be more critical of data and statistical analyses.  This is *not* a data/statistical methods course, but is rather an analysis course. The course requires only the tools learned in D&D.
MGTECON541 | Topics in International Macroeconomics and Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON541 | instructors:Kehoe, P. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:This course gives students a background to understand fundamental issues in international macroeconomics and finance. Key topics include international asset pricing, hedging exchange rate risk, the relation between interest rates and exchange rates, business cycle fluctuations in emerging markets as well as in developed countries, banking and currency crises. By the end of the course, students should be able to read and understand the discussions of these topics in a publication such as The Economist. Approximately half of the course will be lecture-based and the remainder will consist of presentation of group projects.
MGTECON591 | Global Management Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON591 | instructors:Bloom, N. (PI); Summers, M. (GP) description:The course will review the results from a large management practices project involving Cambridge, Harvard, the London School of Economics, McKinsey & Company and Stanford. McKinsey have developed a basic management practice evaluation tool -€“ detailing about 20 key practices -€“ which has been used to evaluate about 20,000 organizations in manufacturing, retail, healthcare and education across North and South America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australasia. These data provide a global insight into the basic management practices around monitoring, targets and talent management that firms adopt around the world. We will examine the link between management and performance, and the reasons for differences in management across firms, industries and countries. This will be supplemented with the results from more recent research with Accenture and the World Bank in India on change management interventions in a developing country context.n nThe course will focus on making students familiar with this research and in particular the scoring grid so that they can easily performance an initial overview of the management practices of any organization. For example, this would be ideal for an initial evaluation of the management practices in a target company for private equity investment or a preliminary evaluation ("diagnostic"€) of a potential client by a consulting firm. Interested students can look at some of the academic, business and media focused output from the research on: http://www.worldmanagementsurvey.com, including over dozens of articles in the New York Times, Economist, Wall Street Journal, Business Week, Newsweek, Washington Post and the Financial Times.
MGTECON600 | Microeconomic Analysis I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON600 | instructors:Sugaya, T. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course provides an introduction to the foundations of modern microeconomic theory. Topics include choice theory, with and without uncertainty, consumer and producer theory, dynamic choice and dynamic programming, social choice and efficiency, and fundamentals of general equilibrium.
MGTECON601 | Microeconomic Analysis II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON601 | instructors:Wilson, R. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course studies the roles of information, incentives and strategic behavior in markets. The rudiments of game theory are developed and applied to selected topics regarding auctions, bargaining, and firms' competitive strategies; information economics; and contracting and market design.
MGTECON602 | Auctions, Bargaining, and Pricing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON602 | instructors:Skrzypacz, A. (PI) description:This course covers auction theory, matching, and related parts of the literature on bargaining and pricing. Key papers in the early part of the course are Myerson and Satterthwaite on bargaining, Myerson on optimal auctions, and Milgrom and Weber's classic work. We then turn to markets in which complicated preferences and constraints, limitations on the use of cash, or variations in contract details among bidders play an important role. Emphasis is on matching markets such as the National Resident Matching Program and asset auctions such as the spectrum auctions.
MGTECON603 | Econometric Methods I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON603 | instructors:Gardete, P. (PI); Haga, M. (GP) description:This is the first course in the sequence in graduate econometrics. The course covers some of the probabilistic and statistical underpinnings of econometrics, and explores the large-sample properties of maximum likelihood estimators. You are assumed to have introductory probability and statistics and matrix theory, and to haveexposure to basic real analysis. Topics covered in the course include random variables, distribution functions, functions of random variables,expectations, conditional probabilities and Bayes' law, convergence and limit laws, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, maximum likelihood estimation, and decision theory.
MGTECON604 | Econometric Methods II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON604 | instructors:Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Lion, C. (GP) description:This course presents a comprehensive treatment of econometric methods used in economics, finance, marketing, and other management disciplines. Among the topics covered are: the classical linear regression analysis, linear simultaneous equations systems and instrumental variables techniques, panel data models, generalized method of moments, selection models, and limited dependent variable models. This course uses Matlab or similar computational software, but previous experience with such software is not a prerequisite. This course assumes working knowledge of undergraduate econometrics, basic linear algebra, basic probability theory, and statistics that are covered in MGTECON 603. Those who did not take MGTECON 603 or similar should see the instructor.
MGTECON605 | Econometric Methods III | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON605 | instructors:Reiss, P. (PI) description:This course completes the first-year sequence in econometrics. It develops nonparametric, semiparametric and nonlinear parametric models in detail, as well as optimization methods used to estimate nonlinear models. The instructor will discuss identification issues, the statistical properties of these estimators, and how they are used in practice. Depending on student and instructor interest, we will consider advanced topics and applications, including: simulation methods and Bayesian estimators.
MGTECON608 | Multiperson Decision Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON608 | instructors:Wilson, R. (PI) description:Students and faculty review and present recent research papers on basic theories and economic applications of decision theory, game theory and mechanism design. Applications include market design and analyses of incentives and strategic behavior in markets, and selected topics such as auctions, bargaining, contracting, signaling, and computation.
MGTECON610 | Macroeconomics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON610 | instructors:Jones, C. (PI); Love, L. (GP) description:This course covers various topics in macroeconomics and is designed to expose students to macroeconomic methods, classic papers in the field, and the latest research at the frontier.  The current focus is on economic growth.  Using theoretical and empirical tools, we consider questions like: How do we understand long-run growth in per capita income?  Why are some countries so much richer than others?  Other topics include misallocation as a source of TFP differences, the direction of technical change, growth and the environment, the rise in health spending, patenting, and international trade.nnnThis course satisfies the GSB PhD macro requirement.
MGTECON612 | Advanced Macroeconomics II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON612 | instructors:Di Tella, S. (PI); Hall, R. (PI) description:Modern macroeconomics of aggregate fluctuations in advanced economies, concentrating mainly on the U.S. Current research on sovereign debt, fiscal policy and financial flows, with emphasis on current events. Current research on persistent substandard performance, financial crises, excess unemployment, and other timely topics. The course will be organized around the detailed study ofnnrecent research papers. One third of the lectures will be given by guests specializing in macro fluctuations research.nn
MGTECON615 | Topics in Market Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON615 | instructors:Milgrom, P. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI) description:This class will focus on several topics in market design and related areas. It is intended as a sequel to the more "standard" market/mechanism/auction design courses offered at the GSB and the Economics department (MGTECON 602 and Econ 285), and will assume that the students are familiar with the material in those courses. The goal of 615 is to bring students closer to doing independent research and introduce them to currently active research areas.
MGTECON616 | Topics in Game Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON616 | instructors:Feinberg, Y. (PI); Lion, C. (GP) description:This is an advanced game theory course and requires a basic background in game theory or an advanced applied game theory course. The course covers foundational topics such as type spaces, modeling reasoning and rationality, game forms, solution refinements and more. A collection of additional topics will be covered independently via problem solving assignments in workshop style meetings with student presentations.
MGTECON617 | Heterogeneity in Macroeconomics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON617 | instructors:Tonetti, C. (PI); Schneider, M. (SI); Summers, M. (GP) description:The goal of this course is to introduce students to frontier research in quantitative macroeconomics with heterogeneous agents. We study models with imperfect financial markets and/or search frictions. We emphasize theory and numerical methods as well as tools to confront model predictions with both micro and macro data. Potential applications cover a wide range of topics in household finance, corporate finance and firm dynamics, asset pricing, housing and labor markets, business cycles and growth.
MGTECON624 | Dynamic Political Economy Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON624 | instructors: description:This course is intended to be an introduction to dynamic political economy theory. We will cover research at the frontier of this field and some useful tools. Tools will be primarily dynamic game theory - including Markov models and models of reputation. Topics covered will include dynamic legislative bargaining, dynamic coalition formation, endogenous institutions, endogenous policy formation, and policy experimentation.
MGTECON628 | Reading Group in Industrial Organization | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON628 | instructors:Benkard, L. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course meets weekly on Tuesdays at Noon.  The primary purpose of the course is to read and discuss current working papers in Industrial Organization and related fields (e.g., Econometrics, Marketing, and Labor).  Students are required to present papers a couple of times per quarter and both students and faculty may also present their own working papers.
MGTECON629 | Microeconomics Workshop | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON629 | instructors:Shaw, K. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:Each week, a different economics faculty member will discuss his or her important and /or current research. The course is an important introduction to PhD level research topics and techniques. Attendance is mandatory.
MGTECON632 | Topics in Continuous Time Dynamics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON632 | instructors:Lambert, N. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP) description:This seminar-style course studies a selection of micro-economic models in dynamic settings, and explores the use of continuous-time methods to solve them. Topics to be covered include experimentation games, social learning, principal-agent problems, career concerns/market-agent models, security design and strategic trading. For every topic discussed, the class introduces gradually the set of relevant mathematical tools: dynamic programming and Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations, Pontryagin's maximum principle, Euler-Lagrange equations, Brownian and Poisson processes, Bayesian inference and linear filtering, change of measure, martingale representation, Malliavin derivatives, stochastic maximum principle, expansions of filtrations. nnThe course emphasizes high-level intuition rather than mathematical rigor. It is targeted at those who seek to become familiar with the literature on continuous-time dynamics and want to understand the functioning of these models, either by general interest or to apply these techniques. nn
MGTECON634 | Machine Learning and Causal Inference | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON634 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI) description:This course will cover statistical methods based on the machine learning literature that can be used for causal inference.  In economics and the social sciences more broadly, empirical analyses typically estimate the effects of counterfactual policies, such as the effect of implementing a government policy, changing a price, showing advertisements, or introducing new products.  Recent advances in supervised and unsupervised machine learning provide systematic approaches to model selection and prediction, methods that are particularly well suited to datasets with many observations and/or many covariates.  This course will review when and how machine learning methods can be used for causal inference, and it will also review recent modifications and extensions to standard methods to adapt them to causal inference and provide statistical theory for hypothesis testing.  Applications to the evaluation of large-scale experiments, including online A/B tests and experiments on networks, will receive special attention.  We will also consider topic modeling, Bayesian methods, and a brief overview of textual analysis.
MGTECON640 | Quantitative Methods for Empirical Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON640 | instructors:Imbens, G. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This is an advanced course on quantitative methods for empirical research. Students are expected to have taken a course in linear models before. In this course I will discuss modern econometric methods for nonlinear models, including maximum likelihood and generalized method of moments. The emphasis will be on how these methods are used in sophisticated empirical work in social sciences. Special topics include discrete choice models and methods for estimating treatment effects.
MGTECON691 | PhD Directed Reading (ACCT 691, FINANCE 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MKTG 691, OB 691, OIT 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON691 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bowen, R. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Pham, J. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
MGTECON692 | PhD Dissertation Research (ACCT 692, FINANCE 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MKTG 692, OB 692, OIT 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON692 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bowen, R. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
MGTECON698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON698 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bowen, R. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
MGTECON699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON699 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bowen, R. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Somaini, P. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Bligh, S. (GP); Pham, J. (GP); Reid, E. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
MGTECON802 | TGR Dissertation (ACCT 802, FINANCE 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MKTG 802, OB 802, OIT 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MGTECON802 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Benkard, L. (PI); Bowen, R. (PI); Bulow, J. (PI); Di Tella, S. (PI); Diamond, R. (PI); Feinberg, Y. (PI); Imbens, G. (PI); Jones, C. (PI); Kreps, D. (PI); Lambert, N. (PI); Lazear, E. (PI); Ostrovsky, M. (PI); Oyer, P. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Shaw, K. (PI); Skrzypacz, A. (PI); Sugaya, T. (PI); Tonetti, C. (PI); Yurukoglu, A. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Pham, J. (GP); Smeton, K. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:
