FINANCE121 | Undergraduate Finance Research and Discussion Seminar | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE121 | instructors:Duffie, D. (PI) description:This seminar is designed to provide some experience with research methods and topics in finance, and to assist undergraduates with career interests in financial research, whether academic or not, with preparation for those careers. The seminar meetings are weekly and discussion based, covering a range of issues and methods in financial economics. Students are expected to prepare a 30-minute research presentation once during the quarter.
FINANCE201 | Managerial Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE201 | instructors:Jenter, D. (PI); Davis, S. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential in most of these decisions is the process of valuation, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, capital structure choice, payout policy, the use and valuation of derivative securities, and risk management. This course is targeted to those students who are new to finance and for those with little quantitative background.
FINANCE204 | Managerial Finance - Accelerated | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE204 | instructors:Breon-Drish, B. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will discuss many of the major financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential in most of these decisions is the process of valuation, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, capital structure choice, the use and valuation of derivative securities (e.g., options and convertible securities), and risk management. This accelerated course is designed for those students who are relatively new to finance but who possess solid quantitative skills.
FINANCE211 | Corporate Finance: Applications, Techniques, and Models | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE211 | instructors:VanHorne, J. (PI) description:The focus of this basic course is on the corporate financial manager and how he/she reaches decisions. Topics include: financial modelling; financing methods of various sorts; capital investment; exchange-rate risk management; acquisitions; buyouts; and dealing with financial distress. In addition to corporations, both domestic and foreign, one session will be devoted to financing a non-profit. The course is designed as a natural follow-up to the Winter Quarter Managerial Finance course, and will draw on things learned in that course. F-211 embraces both the big picture€ and rigorous financial analysis. It is applied, but within a conceptual valuation-oriented framework. The primary vehicle of instruction is the case method, supplementednwith lectures. The emphasis throughout is on making a decision on the basis of well supported analyses. Class participation is important, and cold calls will occur with regularity.
FINANCE214 | Accelerated Corporate Finance: Applications, Techniques, and Models | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE214 | instructors:Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:The focus of this course is to apply the fundamental ideas and tools of corporate finance to real-world corporate decisions. This course (in either its basic or accelerated format) is designed to be the second course in a standard finance sequence; that is, it is designed to be the natural follow-up to the Winter Managerial Finance course. This course will develop and extend standard tools and techniques of financial analysis, valuation, and model-building, and apply these methods to a wide range of cases. Case topics will include capital structure, valuation, mergers and acquisitions, private equity and venture capital, international finance, hostile takeovers and leveraged buyouts, financial distress and bankruptcy. Students will be expected to develop detailed model-based analyses for the cases using the tools and techniques we develop in this course, and to employ their analyses to reach and defend specific recommendations for these cases.
FINANCE229 | MSx: Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE229 | instructors:Strebulaev, I. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of corporate finance including the management of liquidity, capital structure, financial forecasting, dividend policy, financial distress, cost of capital and capital budgetinig. It discusses the major financial decisions made by corporate managers and the impact of those decisions on investors and the value of the firm. Topics include criteria for understand the valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, market efficiency, and the role of derivative securities including options. The course also provides coverage of the role of financial markets in the operations of the firm.
FINANCE310 | Managerial Finance - Advanced | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE310 | instructors:McQuade, T. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course covers the foundations of finance with an emphasis on applications that are vital for corporate managers. We will tackle most of the important financial decisions made by corporate managers, both within the firm and in their interactions with investors. Essential in most of these decisions is the process of valuation, which will be an important emphasis of the course. Topics include criteria for making investment decisions, valuation of financial assets and liabilities, relationships between risk and return, capital structure choice, payout policy, the use and valuation of derivative securities (e.g., options and convertible securities), and risk management. This advanced course is targeted to those with a strong background in finance and (at least) solid quantitative skills.
FINANCE320 | Debt Markets | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE320 | instructors:Duffie, D. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course is intended for those who plan careers that may involve debt financing for their businesses or other investments, or involve trading or investing in debt instruments and their derivatives, including money-market instruments including central bank deposits, government bonds, repurchase agreements, interest-rate swaps, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), corporate bonds, structured credit products, and credit derivatives. We will emphasize institutional features of the markets, including trading, pricing, and hedging. There is a special focus on distressed debt. Most lectures will start with a cold-called student presentation of an un-graded short homework calculation. There will also be a series of graded homework, an in-class mid-term, and about six graded 'pop quizzes' of 10 minutes or less.
FINANCE332 | Finance and Society | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE332 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Ferrero, M. (GP) description:This interdisciplinary course will discuss the role of the financial system within the broader economy and the interactions between the financial industry and the rest of society. The course will provide an overview of the financial system, cover the basic economic principles essential for understanding the role of finance in the economy, and discuss of policy issues around financial regulation. It seeks to mix students from GSB, Law School, Public Policy, Economics, Political Science, and other departments. Topics to be discussed include: * The financial system, from microfinance to global megabanks: how and why finance can benefit society as well as endanger and harm. * Financial regulation: why and how? * Other people's money: the challenge of effective control, governance, and trust. * The politics of banking and finance. * Ethical issues in finance.
FINANCE341 | Modeling for Investment Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE341 | instructors:Grenadier, S. (PI); Watson, J. (SI) description:This course will combine practical and up-to-date investment theory with modeling applications. Understanding beautiful theory, without the ability to apply it, is essentially useless. Conversely, creating state-of-the-art spreadsheets that apply incorrect theory is a waste of time. Here, we try to explicitly combine theory and application.nnThe course will be divided into 6 modules, or topics. The first day of each module will be a lecture on an investment topic. Also provided is a team modeling project on the topic. The second day of each module will be a lab. The lab day will begin with modeling concepts (tips) designed to help you use Excel to implement the module's investment topic. After the tips are provided, the remainder of the lab day is devoted to teams working on their modeling project and allowing for Q&A. On the third day of each module will be presentations and wrap-up.
FINANCE345 | History of Financial Crises | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE345 | instructors:Koudijs, P. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:Financial crises are as old as financial markets themselves. There are many similarities between historical events. The recent credit crisis, for example, is far from unique. More often than not financial crises are the result of bubbles in certain asset classes or can be linked to a specific form of financial innovation. This course gives an overview of the history of financial crises, asset price bubbles, banking collapses and debt crises. We start with the Tulip mania in 1636 and end with the recent credit and debt crises. The purpose of the course is to understand the causes of past crises and to develop a conceptual framework that ties common elements together. We will discuss the lessons that we can draw for financial markets today.
FINANCE347 | Money and Banking | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE347 | instructors:Krishnamurthy, A. (PI) description:This course is designed to help students understand the connections between money (the Federal Reserve), financial markets, and the macroeconomy. How are interest rates determined, and how does the Federal Reserve conduct monetary policy? What economic factors drive the yield curves in different bond markets?  We will pay particular attention to the banking system, with an eye toward understanding the function and importance of banks.  Topics will include the role of the Federal Reserve as a lender of last resort during the recent, and prior, financial crises, unconventional monetary policy tools such as quantitative easing and forward guidance. We discuss the role of the government in regulating the financial sector, paying particular attention to capital requirements for banks.  We will often begin class with a discussion of current macro-financial market events in the context of our course coverage. The course is appropriate for anyone trying to gain a macroeconomic perspective on capital markets, from investors to bankers, or those simply interested in the linkages between interest rates, banks and the economy.  Given the topics we cover, the course will also be interesting to those who want a better understanding of the 2007-2009 financial crisis and the ongoing Federal Reserve experiment in unconventional monetary policy.
FINANCE350 | Corporate Financial Modeling | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE350 | instructors:DeMarzo, P. (PI); Ferrero, M. (GP) description:The course will take the perspective of a mid-level manager or decision-maker who is responsible for collecting, analyzing, and utilizing financial information in the context of a major transaction. We will integrate theories presented throughout courses in the core, particularly accounting and finance, and take a hands-on approach to understand how the theory is implemented in practice. The focus of the course will be on developing critical financial modeling skills, understanding best practices, and recognizing common pitfalls. Students will work on a series of cases and build models that can be used for earnings and pro-forma financial statement forecasts, valuation, the assessment of financing needs, merger analysis, and LBO evaluation. Students will also gain experience presenting financial models and critically assessing them. By the conclusion of the course, students will develop the skills to construct complex financial models and the logical frameworks to utilize them for various organizational applications. [Note: This course is geared toward students relatively new to financial modeling; those with extensive financial modeling backgrounds may be better served by an alternative course.]
FINANCE351 | Advanced Corporate Financial Modeling | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE351 | instructors:DeMarzo, P. (PI); Ferrero, M. (GP) description:Students will engage in the development of corporate financial modeling cases and solutions. Students will also develop materials to aid others in building financial models, and serve as case leaders during lab workshops. Extensive background in financial modeling and experience with Excel is required.
FINANCE373 | Entrepreneurial Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE373 | instructors:Bernstein, S. (PI); Siegel, R. (SI); Ferrero, M. (GP) description:This is a course about the financial decision-making process for start-up firms. The course takes a two-pronged approach: First, we develop tools and concepts of corporate finance related to modeling, valuation, control, and investment decisions within an entrepreneurial context. Second, we use cases with firms at different stages of their life cycle from initial angel or venture capital investments through exit decisions, to see the issues that arise when these principles are applied in practice. In some cases we take the viewpoint of the entrepreneur and in others the viewpoint of the investor. After all, as an entrepreneur, you cannot negotiate effectively without understanding the investor's motivations. Conversely, you cannot evaluate a potential investment opportunity without appreciating the entrepreneur's perspective and incentives. Finally, we explore new developments in entrepreneurial finance such as crowdfunding and early liquidity provision.
FINANCE377 | China's Financial System | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE377 | instructors:Duffie, D. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course is a survey of China's financial system, including its banking industry, monetary policy structure, and financial markets (bonds, derivatives, equities, foreign exchange, and related markets). The goal is an integrated view of how capital, risk, and liquidity are intermediated within China and cross-border, by comparison with more developed financial systems. Recent history and current trends (including liberalization of markets) will be emphasized. Coverage will be through lectures, reading of both primary source documents and secondary (journalistic and analyst) commentary, as well as a range of speakers who are subject matter experts. Students will participate actively in class discussion, make a 5-minute topical presentation, and submit a short (10-page) paper.nn
FINANCE381 | Private Equity in Frontier Markets: Creating a New Investible Asset Class | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE381 | instructors:Meehan, B. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP); Hartmann, M. (SI) description:In 2001, Jim O'Neil of Goldman Sachs wrote a research note which underscored the importance of so-called Emerging Markets to a well-balanced investment portfolio. Still today, most investors have little or no investment exposure beyond North America, Europe, Japan and more recently India, China and Brazil. All of this is just beginning to change. The not yet fully formed investment category called frontier market private equity is emerging and within the next decade is likely to be an asset class of its own. Private equity investments are being made in southeast Asia, in MENA(Middle East/ North Africa), in sub-Saharan countries beyond South Africa and in Latin America. Even fund of funds are appearing across these markets. At the same time, investors face a world of diminished returns expectations in developed economies just as aging demographics and the need for continued growth, innovation and infrastructure renewal places increasing demands for payout. Suffice it to say, investors will be looking beyond traditional asset classes and geographies for sources of return. This new course is designed to expose you to the still emerging, not yet fully formed world of frontier market private equity. To set the context we will start by reviewing the fundamentals of economic growth and development globally. In addition we will discuss the fundamental concepts involved in constructing and evaluating the performance of a large scale investment portfolio. We will then review cases on the elements of the private equity cycle/process and specifically address the special demands of frontier markets in general. We will also focus on issues that are specific to various markets (e.g. Nigeria, Vietnam, etc.). Students taking the course will be given the opportunity to make important contributions to the knowledge base of this still very young field by working in small teams to research topics of personal and general interest, the results of which will be reported to the rest of the class.
FINANCE385 | Angel and Venture Capital Financing for Entrepreneurs and Investors | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE385 | instructors:Strebulaev, I. (PI); Gouw, T. (SI); Berg, S. (GP) description:This course covers all the stages of funding for early stage high-growth companies, from seed funding to venture capital rounds to a successful exit. We will concentrate on how entrepreneurs and investors make and should make important decisions. Examples of issues that we will cover are: How can entrepreneurs raise funding successfully? What are typical mistakes entrepreneurs make in raising capital and negotiating with investors? How to choose your investor? How to pitch to an investor? How do angels and VCs generate and process their deal flow and select companies? How are VCs involved in business decisions such as recruiting talent and replacing CEOs? What are the important provisions of financial contracts between VCs and founders? How to value early-stage companies? The course is very applied and mostly case-based. We will discuss a lot of nitty-gritty details that is a must for founders and investors. As a part of the course, students will work on their business ideas, pitch to classmates and a group of top VCs in the Valley. This VCs will work with student groups as VC advisors and we will simulate the VC partner meetings. We will have a lot of speakers and case protagonists, founders, angels, and VCs. No prior knowledge of the VC industry is needed.
FINANCE555 | Private Wealth Management and Private Investing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE555 | instructors:Parker, G. (PI); Rappaport, A. (SI); Lion, C. (GP) description:The Private Wealth Management and Private Investing course will address issues that relate to the management of personal assets as opposed to institutional investing.  It will cover the historical origins and growth of private wealth management, investment planning, risk management, inter-generational transfers of wealth, philanthropy and tax planning.  Classes will focus on case studies and various readings.  Two instructors will lead the class, one from the GSB and one from the private wealth management industry.  Most classes will be augmented by visits from professionals in the wealth management and private banking business.  Active class participation and a group project are required.
FINANCE559 | The World of Investing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE559 | instructors:Parker, G. (PI); Powers, J. (SI) description:This is a 9-week speaker series, exposing students to the world of first-class public market investors. Each week will have a different visitor describing their investment philosophy, strategy and experience. Full attendance is a requirement to pass the course. Absences must be explicitly excused.
FINANCE562 | Financial Trading Strategies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE562 | instructors:Mak, K. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:The purpose of this course is to familiarize students with the different types of trading strategies employed by various money management institutions. These financial trading strategies are used to manage the risk and return profiles of specific portfolios. Throughout the sessions, students will be challenged to understand and explore the application and implementation of these different strategies. Trading simulations employed on the Rotman Interactive Trader and Rotman Portfolio Manager (using real market data and computer generated data) will be used extensively in this course as a way to learn and test different strategies. All classes will be held in the new Real-time Analytics and Investment Lab (RAIL), located on the third floor of the Bass Building (B312). Students are expected to attend all sessions. Graded are based on in-class simulation results, class participation, and two written assignments. This course is designed to have a fast learning curve and is a pre-requisite for FIN563, the advanced extension of this course.
FINANCE563 | Financial Trading Strategies 2 | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE563 | instructors:Mak, K. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:This course is an extension of FIN562, Financial Trading Strategies. Students will expand on introductory topics from the Financial Trading Strategies Course and be required to build extensive live-market models and risk management models. Class discussions will closely link current market events and pricing anomalies to theoretical and simulated markets and we will closely study the deviations between them.
FINANCE587 | Private Equity - An Overview of the Industry | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE587 | instructors:Parker, G. (PI); Powers, J. (SI); Lion, C. (GP) description:This 2-unit elective at the GSB is an analytical review and overview of private equity partnerships.  The course looks at all aspects of private equity investing and may be of interest to five groups of students: (i) students who aspire to be employed in private equity as a career; (ii) students who plan to be employed by operating companies that are owned by private equity firms; (iii) students who may invest in private equity partnerships as a limited partner; (iv) students who find private equity to be an interesting part of the financial community in general (v) students who expect to participate in corporate business development or mergers and acquisitions. The course will meet for nine classes, most for a duration of 90 minutes. One class will be a mock investment review committee presentation as a final project.
FINANCE620 | Financial Markets I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE620 | instructors:Breon-Drish, B. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course is an introductory PhD level course in financial economics. We begin with individual choice under uncertainty, then move on to equilibrium models, the stochastic discount factor methodology, and no-arbitrage pricing. We will also address some empirical puzzles relating to asset markets, and explore the models that have been developed to try to explain them.
FINANCE621 | Financial Markets II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE621 | instructors:Koudijs, P. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course continues F620 and covers a number of main concepts in market microstructure. Among the topics that are covered are (i) Rational Expectations models and their foundations (ii) strategic trading models (iii) models of market and funding liquidity. In addition to the discussion of theoretic models time will be allotted to empirical applications.
FINANCE622 | Dynamic Asset Pricing Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE622 | instructors:Duffie, D. (PI) description:This course is an introduction to multiperiod models in finance, mainly pertaining to optimal portfolio choice and asset pricing. The course begins with discrete-time models for portfolio choice and security prices, and then moves to a continuous-time setting. The topics then covered include advanced derivative pricing models, models of the term structure of interest rates, the valuation of corporate securities, portfolio choice in continuous-time settings, and general-equilibrium and over-the-counter asset pricing models. Students should have had some previous exposure to general equilibrium theory and some basic courses in investments. Strong backgrounds in calculus, linear algebra, and probability theory are recommended. Problem assignments are frequent and, for most students, demanding. Prerequisite: F620 or permission of instructor.
FINANCE624 | Corporate Finance Theory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE624 | instructors:Zwiebel, J. (PI) description:This course considers a wide range of topics in theoretical corporate finance (broadly interpreted). Topics include capital structure decisions, agency conflicts in the firm, dividend policy, security design, optimal financial contracting, the theory of the firm, the market for corporate control, and banking and financial intermediation, among others. The primary focus is on how asymmetric information, agency conflicts, strategic interactions, and incomplete contracting affect corporate financial decision-making. The course aims both to familiarize students with influential papers and current research, and to promote new research ideas in the area.
FINANCE625 | Empirical Asset Pricing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE625 | instructors:Singleton, K. (PI) description:This course is an introduction to empirical research in asset pricing. The focus of the course is on the interplay between financial economic theory, econometric method, and that analysis of financial market data. Topics include tests of asset pricing models, return predictability in time-series and cross-section, empirical studies of asset market imperfections, and studies of individual and professional investor behavior. Class discussions will draw on textbooks/monographs and original articles and working papers.
FINANCE630 | Empirical Corporate Finance | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE630 | instructors:Bernstein, S. (PI); Ferrero, M. (GP) description:This course provides an introduction to empirical research in corporate finance, with an emphasis on the application of cross-sectional and panel data econometric techniques for causal inference. Topics include investment policy, entrepreneurship and innovation, financing decisions, firm ownership, corporate governance, managerial incentives, financial contracting, and the structure and internal organization of firms. The course assumes knowledge of econometrics at the level of MGTECON 603.
FINANCE635 | Advanced Topics in Empirical Asset Pricing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE635 | instructors:Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); Berk, J. (SI); McQuade, T. (SI) description:This course will survey current research topics in empirical asset pricing. The emphasis will be on giving students exposure to active research areas and open questions rather than well-established areas and empirical techniques. Topics may include liquidity, capital market frictions, money management, volatility, investment-based asset pricing, return predictability, bubbles, and consumption-macro asset pricing models.
FINANCE691 | PhD Directed Reading (ACCT 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MGTECON 691, MKTG 691, OB 691, OIT 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE691 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Perez-Gonzalez, F. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Bernard, T. (GP); Ferrero, M. (GP); Love, L. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
FINANCE692 | PhD Dissertation Research (ACCT 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MGTECON 692, MKTG 692, OB 692, OIT 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE692 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Perez-Gonzalez, F. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Bernard, T. (GP); Ferrero, M. (GP); Love, L. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
FINANCE802 | TGR Dissertation (ACCT 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MGTECON 802, MKTG 802, OB 802, OIT 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=FINANCE802 | instructors:Admati, A. (PI); Berk, J. (PI); Bernstein, S. (PI); Breon-Drish, B. (PI); DeMarzo, P. (PI); Duffie, D. (PI); Grenadier, S. (PI); Jenter, D. (PI); Koudijs, P. (PI); Krishnamurthy, A. (PI); McDonald, J. (PI); McQuade, T. (PI); Perez-Gonzalez, F. (PI); Pfleiderer, P. (PI); Rauh, J. (PI); Singleton, K. (PI); Strebulaev, I. (PI); Vanasco, V. (PI); Zwiebel, J. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Bernard, T. (GP); Ferrero, M. (GP); Love, L. (GP); Rojas, D. (GP); Smith, J. (GP) description:
