HRMGT280 | Human Resource Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HRMGT280 | instructors:Kreps, D. (PI) description:An organization's human resources are very often a key, even the key, to the organization's success.  Human resource management (HRM) is therefore of strategic importance.  We begin by surveying the fundamentals of human resource management from the perspective of the organization's overall strategy, relying on concepts and theories from your previous economics and organizational behavior courses.  Then we focus on the question of motivation and, in particular, how organizations can successfully motivate their employees to provide "efforts" that go above and beyond the nominal specs of the particular job.
HRMGT282 | HR for Startups | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HRMGT282 | instructors:Rao, H. (PI) description:This course focuses attention on human resource strategies for startups. It discusses recruitment, incentives, design of jobs, development of talent, leadership and empowerment challenges in startups. We will deal with questions ranging from equity splits to founding team dynamics, hiring talent to the sequencing of hires. We will use a mix of "live cases" from the field, and lectures.
HRMGT284 | Organizational Strategy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HRMGT284 | instructors:Shaw, K. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:HRMGT 284 will focus on the organization strategy of the firm. The success of a firm depends not just on a well-designed product market strategy,  but on how well that strategy is executed to align the goals of the employees with those of the firm. Topics covered include meeting strategic objectives, hiring, pay, training, teamwork, promotions, performance evaluation, pay for top executives, management practices in startups, and organizational transformation. While the general theme is the management of the firm, the topics also lend themselves to developing perspectives on how you manage your personal career.
HRMGT302 | Incentives and Productivity | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=HRMGT302 | instructors:Lazear, E. (PI); Smeton, K. (GP) description:This course is designed to teach the student how to use economics to solve practical personnel problems that affect worker productivity. Topics include: selecting the best workers to hire, training workers, turnover, setting compensation strategically, structuring salespersons' commissions, downsizing, using promotions as an incentive mechanism, and other topics. Examples and cases will be presented to demonstrate the importance of using economic techniques to structure human resources programs. The course will appeal most to the student who expects to be a general manager or who hopes to run his or her own business. Although the human resources specialist may benefit from this course, the emphasis will be on decisions that affect personnel, but are made primarily by general managers. The class format is somewhat unusual. Most classes consist of lecture with questions, but two are class workshops. The lecture will present a theoretical development of a topic. The questions discussed during the last part of the lecture period will involve practical business application of the theory presented in lecture. This course is more technical than other human resources courses, but should be accessible to anyone who has successfully completed the economics and statistics courses in the MBA core. Every student is expected to know calculus and basic probability and statistics. Although I will not emphasize the technical aspects on the final exam, the problem sets will require some knowledge of mathematics. To ease your fears, many "poets" have taken variants of this course in the past and have done well.nnnThere will be graded team problem sets and a final exam.
