MKTG240 | Marketing Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG240 | instructors:Gardete, P. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI); Haga, M. (GP); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (SI) description:The objectives of this course are to introduce students to the substantive and procedural aspects of marketing management and to sharpen skills for critical analytical thinking and effective communication. Specifically, the goals are to introduce students to marketing strategy and to the elements of marketing analysis: customer analysis, competitor analysis, and company analysis; to familiarize students with the elements of the marketing mix (product strategy, pricing, advertising and promotion, and distribution), and to enhance problem solving and decision-making abilities in these operational areas of marketing; and to provide students with a forum (both written and verbal) for presenting and defending their own recommendations, and for critically examining and discussing the recommendations of others.
MKTG249 | MSx: Marketing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG249 | instructors:Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Aranzamendez, O. (GP) description:Every business has two kinds of problems: 1) Not having customers and 2) everything else. Marketing addresses the first problem. With increased access to information and fast-changing technology the role of marketing has broadened significantly. To attract and retain profitable customers, managers must identify and measure consumers'€™ needs and wants, assess the competitive environment, select the most appropriate customer targets, and then develop multi-faceted marketing programs that satisfy consumers'€™ needs better than the competition. The objective of this class is to provide you with perspectives on classical and modern day marketing, and to teach you how to take a high level strategic approach towards contemporary marketing challenges.
MKTG326 | Customer Acquisition for New Ventures | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG326 | instructors:Lattin, J. (PI); Haga, M. (GP) description:The focus of this course is on the strategies and methods used by early-stage companies to acquire customers (through outbound or inbound marketing) and to activate them (i.e., to encourage repeat behavior and/or increase the frequency of interaction).  Throughout the course, we will examine topics such as search engine marketing (SEM), content marketing, affiliate marketing, social media campaigns, mobile applications, freemium strategies, and the use of web analytics for tracking customer acquisition and conversion.  The focus will be mainly on digital marketing channels, and the emphasis will be more B2C than B2B.  Instruction will consist of case discussion, exercises and simulations, and guest lectures, with students working in groups to apply their learning to improve the process of customer acquisition.nn
MKTG344 | Marketing Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG344 | instructors:Sahni, N. (PI) description:Market intelligence is of value to firms. To understand their markets, firms need to answer questions such as: How large is the market for a product, what is important for the target segment? How does change in the product design affect profits? This course aims to help students ask relevant questions and find data-driven answers to them. The main objectives are to equip students with: 1) an understanding of the value of data - what intelligence it can and cannot provide, 2) exposure to state-of-the-art quantitative tools such as conjoint analysis and cluster analysis to analyze the data, and 3) sufficient hands-on experience with these tools for answering students' own marketing research questions from the perspective of an entrepreneur, marketer or a consultant. The course is designed to address substantive marketing problems such as: market segmentation, targeting, forecasting demand, pricing, and developing new products. We will use a mix of lectures, exercises, cases and a project to learn the material.
MKTG365 | Marketing Analytics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG365 | instructors:Narayanan, S. (PI); Moore, N. (GP) description:Firms operate in an increasingly challenging business environment, with greater competition, more informed customers and rapidly changing market trends. Simultaneously, they also have access to more information about their customers, the marketplace and their competitors than ever before. In this environment, knowing how to use this information to make optimal business decisions is a crucial competitive advantage. Firms often have access to data that they do not know how to use. The objectives of this course are to introduce students to state-of-the-art marketing analytics and to teach them how to practically apply these analytics to real-world business decisions.nnnThe following are examples of the types of questions that the course will address: How should a firm determine the prices for its products and services? What is the effect of television advertising on a brand's sales and how should advertising be optimized? What can a firm learn about its customers from online browsing behavior and how can this knowledge be used for targeted advertising and promotions? How should a firm allocate its sales force? How should a firm manage the allocation of its promotional budget in order to maximize its returns? How should the mailing of catalogs or direct mail be targeted to increase response rates?nnnThe course will use a mix of lectures, cases, homework assignments and a course project to learn the material. Students do not need to have an advanced statistical background to take this course. Familiarity with the material in an introductory marketing course and an introductory statistics course will be assumed, but necessary material will be reviewed during the course of the quarter as necessary.
MKTG366 | Advanced Marketing Analytics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG366 | instructors:Narayanan, S. (PI); Moore, N. (GP) description:This course is focused on advanced methods and approaches to marketing analytics.  Firms often operate in an increasingly challenging environment, with greater competition, more informed customers and rapidly changing market trends.  They also operate in a data-rich environment, with information often at the individual customer level.  Knowing how to use this information to optimize business decisions is a competitive advantage.nnnThe course will take a hands-on approach to learning advanced techniques and methods in marketing analytics. The course will set a broad set of topics including pricing, advertising, channel management and customer relationship management amongst others.  Students will use a mix of approaches including statistical methods, experimental and quasi-experimental approaches.  This course will use a hybrid model, with a mix of case studies, exercises and flipped classrooms, where students will read/view material in advance of the class, with the class sessions focusing on discussing the topics at a deeper level.  A major component of the course will be a project that students will work on in partnership with a firm on solving a business problem using the methods and approaches learned in this course.nnnThe course will be a good fit for students who have a background in advanced statistical methods and programming, or are willing to acquire these skills on their own in advance.
MKTG373 | Monetization - Choosing a Business Model | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG373 | instructors:Nair, H. (PI); Thygesen, A. (SI) description:This course examines the fundamental issues of creating a strategy for monetization and revenue growth within an organization. Students learn about setting an organization's business model design, aligning various functional areas within the company to implement a monetization strategy, and the tradeoffs that occur when choosing amongst profitable monetization policies for the firm. They master concepts, frameworks, and tools to assess an industry and a firm's pricing strategy and business models, and to craft alternatives. They also study the interplay between marketing, salesforces, HR incentives and human capital management, advertising and data and analytics in shaping a winning monetization policy. Topics we will cover include monetizing online content and strategies in ad-driven industries, understanding freemium models and installed-base competition, monetization of consumer data, privacy considerations and the privacy economy, business models from the perspective of investors and venture capitalists, regulatory considerations, and linking monetization to the ability to measure and capture value. We will use a mix of cases and lectures along with extensive participation from industry leaders to bring to light the various issues in class.
MKTG532 | Persuasion | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG532 | instructors:Tormala, Z. (PI); Davis, S. (GP) description:The aim of this course is to provide insight into the psychology of persuasion. We will explore research and theory in this domain and discuss potentially powerful techniques for changing people's attitudes and behaviors. We will apply our insights broadly to examine the features that make for an effective persuasive appeal in a wide range of settings (e.g., an ad, a pitch to investors, etc.), and students will practice designing and implementing persuasive messages.  In each session, I will share classic and cutting edge research on persuasion emanating from the fields of social and consumer psychology.  These insights will be organized around a few basic principles.  We will then work together to brainstorm and practice the application of the insights to real world persuasion settings.
MKTG534 | The Travel and Airline Industry | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG534 | instructors:Nair, H. (PI); Gillani, S. (SI); Berg, S. (GP); Lion, C. (GP) description:This class will provide an overview of the travel and hospitality industry focusing on strategy, business models, institutions and innovations. Issues we will cover include pricing and yield management, service quality assessment and loyalty and reward program management within verticals such as airlines, hotels and cruise lines. We will also discuss new innovations such as shared consumption models and the role of online reviews and user generated content in facilitating travel. The class will involve a mix of cases and lectures; a site visit to a Bay Area travel/hospitality firm for a tour of operations and discussion of strategy; and interactions with several industry leaders in the travel space.
MKTG535 | Product Launch | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG535 | instructors:Levav, J. (PI); Siegelman, R. (SI) description:Our focus is on the question, "When launching a product, what are the framing issues that will help determine success?" In particular, we will provide you with tools to analyze market situations and determine whether it makes sense to launch a product or engage in a marketing-related investment. The course is not designed to cover issues such as execution of a strategy (although we will touch on this a bit), but on whether to enter a market to begin with. Thus, the course is decision oriented; we want you to think about market entry decisions and how you would make them. The tools that you will be provided won't consist of equations; instead, we'll arm you with a set of questions to ask, whose answers will help you make better decisions.nnnThis course is an advanced applications marketing course. Unlike the base core course that is designed to cover every basic topic in marketing, here we focus on a number of basic questions and explore them in depth. Although we will have some lectures for background, the bulk of this endeavor will be accomplished through case discussions. In other words, we can't and won't cover everything, as this course is not designed to be comprehensive. We are going to rely on your academic background in marketing to cover the basics; here and there, it is possible that some material will be a review of what you've done before (there's nothing wrong with a little de ja vu). Unfortunately, due to the tight schedule we will not be able to cover any of the basics that are not already included in the course material.nnnThe course includes, cases, lectures, and guest lectures.nn
MKTG552 | Building Innovative Brands | http://MKTG552.stanford.edu | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Flink, C. (SI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:Building Innovative Brands is a hands-on two-week dive into how leading brands may leverage a Design Thinking approach to become ever more participatory, experiential and experimental. Together, we will explore how leading organizations stoke conversations, co-create experiences, spark stories and build engaging relationships with consumers.  Inspired by provocative real-world examples and industry guests, diverse student teams will employ human-centered design methods to conceive of and visualize their own creative proposals for how a brand  could engage in innovative, brand-enhancing new ways. Teams will ultimately pitch their experience design concepts to the program leadership for feedback, consideration and potential real-world implementation.
MKTG554 | Branding | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG554 | instructors:Khan, U. (PI) description:tbd
MKTG574 | Rethinking Purpose | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG574 | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Longinidis, K. (GP); Ma, E. (SI) description:We assume happiness is stable, an endpoint to achieve our goal to chase. It's not. Recent behavioral research suggests that the meaning of happiness changes every 5-10 years, raising the question: how might we build organizations and lives that cultivate happiness? Research suggests it is better to aim for meaning.  In Rethinking Purpose, we explore how to rethink purpose in work and life.  Students will hear from guests and take a field trip to see how Google has reconsidered purpose. Building on the principles for Solve for X (www.solveforx.com), a platform encouraging moonshot thinking to solve huge problems in the world, we'll harness design thinking principles to create personal moonshots and a path to continue to find those moonshots over the life course. Lastly, we'll map out how to use time in ways that would help build innovative teams, products, and ultimately lives that have positive, meaningful, lasting impact in the world. If you take this course, please save Feb 20th 2016 (Sat, 10-6pm) at the d.school for an immersive day to serve foundation for this 2 week class.
MKTG575 | Consumer Behavior | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG575 | instructors:Huang, S. (PI) description:Contemporary approaches to marketing emphasize the importance of adopting a consumer focus, from determining consumers' wants and needs, understanding their motivation, to shaping their attitudes and ensuring their loyalty. This course provides insight into consumer psychology and the means by which consumer behavior can be influenced or altered. The course has both theoretical and practical objectives in that we will: (1) explore theory and research that is relevant to understanding consumer psychology, (2) apply these theories and findings to generate novel ideas for effective marketing techniques. By shedding light on the psychological underpinnings of consumers' motivation, attitudes, preferences, and decision-making styles, this course will help students make more insightful and effective marketing decisions, as well as developing novel ideas for grabbing attention, shaping behavior, and changing consumers' minds.
MKTG576 | Digital Marketing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG576 | instructors:Narayanan, S. (PI); Pani, A. (SI) description:There has been a rapid evolution of digital means of communicating with consumers and advertising to them, driven by changes in technologies and consumer behavior.  Readership of traditional print media has gone down dramatically, and television is consumed very differently now than even a few years ago, with the advent of digital video recording and  streaming video platforms.  This has led to a dramatic growth of marketing using digital platforms.  Furthermore, a variety of avenues for digital marketing has emerged, including display advertising, search advertising, advertising on online video platforms, advertising and other forms of engagement on social networks etc. A recent trend has been the rapid growth of mobile platforms, which include these different avenues also available. An integrated view of using these different media to market to consumers is important to effective digital marketing.  With the rapid acceptance of numerous "Big Data" technologies by large enterprises, online marketing is also evolving to incorporate a customer-centric view rather than a campaign centric view.  This course will explore these issues.
MKTG622 | Behavioral Research in Marketing III: Consumer Behavior Classics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG622 | instructors:Huang, S. (PI) description:The purpose of this seminar is to provide PhD level coverage of the major research work carried out in consumer behavior.  For each topic considered, a selection of articles with a specific focus on "early classics" will be distributed and discussed. For each topic, our goals will be to determine the main ideas and research questions driving work in each topic area, how these authors positioned their work and tested their ideas, what made these papers "classics," where the gaps are, and what ideas for new research those gaps imply.
MKTG641 | Behavioral Research in Marketing I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG641 | instructors:Wheeler, S. (PI); Haga, M. (GP) description:This course prepares the student to do empirical behavioral research. It will cover all aspects of the research process, from hypothesis generation to experimental design to data analysis to writing up your results and submitting them for publication.
MKTG642 | Behavioral Research in Marketing II: Consumer Behavior | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG642 | instructors:Khan, U. (PI) description:This PhD seminar provides coverage of the major research carried out in consumer research both in marketing and psychology. A vast set of topic will be covered including conscious and non-conscious consumer goals, motivations, emotions, attention and perception and consumer decision processes. The course will help students hone their ability to conceptualize, operationalize, and develop research idea and will provide a grasp of what it takes to be a successful academic in the field of consumer behavior.
MKTG644 | Quantitative Research in Marketing | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG644 | instructors:Sahni, N. (PI) description:The goal of this seminar is to familiarize students with the quantitative marketing literature and develop the process of generating research ideas and topics.  Sessions will involve a mix of: nnni) a discussion of papers in a particular area in quantitative marketing; and/or nnii) a discussion of students' research ideas with respect to topics.  nnnThe format will mix student presentations of papers with lectures by the instructor(s).  When discussing papers in the literature, the focus will be on the topic and research question and not the methodological approach.  When discussing research ideas, students should be able to articulate why their question is interesting, where it fits in the literature and how they would address their question.
MKTG645 | Empirical Analysis of Dynamic Decision Contexts | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG645 | instructors:Nair, H. (PI) description:This course will focus on empirical tools for analyzing dynamic decision contexts, wherein current actions of firms or consumers have effects on future payoffs, profits and/or competitive conduct. The course will build the relevant material generally, but our applications will be mostly focused on empirical marketing, operations and industrial organization problems. We will have an applied focus overall, emphasizing the practical aspects of implementation, especially programming. The overall aim of the class is to help students obtain the skills to implement these methods in their research. By the end of the class, students are expected to be able to formulate a dynamic decision problem, program it in a language such as Matlab or C, and to estimate the model from data. The course starts with an overview of consumer theory and static models of consumer choice. We build on this material and introduce discrete choice markovian decision problems, and continuous markovian decision problems, and focus on building the computational toolkit for the numerical analysis of these problems. We then move on to specific applications, and discuss multi-agent dynamic equilibrium models. Finally, we discuss recently proposed advanced methods for alleviating computational burden in dynamic models.
MKTG661 | Attitudes and Persuasion | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG661 | instructors:Tormala, Z. (PI); Davis, S. (GP) description:The goal of this course -  geared toward graduate students in marketing, psychology, and related disciplines -€” is to explore some of the issues and controversies that currently engage researchers in the domain of attitudes and persuasion. We will cover classic topics in this domain, but in each case we will emphasize new findings or recent directions.  Students who take this course will become familiar with research methods and major issues in attitudes research and will have a better understanding of how individuals form, use, change, and maintain their attitudes. Throughout the course, students will be encouraged to critique existing research and formulate new research ideas.
MKTG691 | PhD Directed Reading (ACCT 691, FINANCE 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MGTECON 691, OB 691, OIT 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG691 | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Khan, U. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Nair, H. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI); Davis, S. (GP); Lion, C. (GP); Ponce, S. (GP); Summers, M. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
MKTG692 | PhD Dissertation Research (ACCT 692, FINANCE 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MGTECON 692, OB 692, OIT 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG692 | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Khan, U. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Nair, H. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI); Ponce, S. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
MKTG698 | Doctoral Practicum in Teaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG698 | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Khan, U. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Nair, H. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI); Davis, S. (GP); Lion, C. (GP); Ponce, S. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Teaching
MKTG699 | Doctoral Practicum in Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG699 | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Anderson-Macdonald, S. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Khan, U. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Nair, H. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Davis, S. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Lion, C. (GP); Longinidis, K. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Ponce, S. (GP); Summers, M. (GP) description:Doctoral Practicum in Research
MKTG802 | TGR Dissertation (ACCT 802, FINANCE 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MGTECON 802, OB 802, OIT 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=MKTG802 | instructors:Aaker, J. (PI); Gardete, P. (PI); Hartmann, W. (PI); Huang, S. (PI); Khan, U. (PI); Lattin, J. (PI); Levav, J. (PI); Nair, H. (PI); Narayanan, S. (PI); Sahni, N. (PI); Seiler, S. (PI); Shiv, B. (PI); Simonson, I. (PI); Tormala, Z. (PI); Wheeler, S. (PI); Berg, S. (GP); Davis, S. (GP); Haga, M. (GP); Lion, C. (GP); Ponce, S. (GP) description:
