OB205 | Managing Groups and Teams | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB205 | instructors:Greer, L. (PI); Lowery, B. (PI); Neale, M. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Shaker, S. (GP) description:This course introduces you to the structures and processes that affect group performance and highlights some of the common pitfalls associated with working in teams. Topics include team culture, fostering creativity and coordination, making group decisions, and dealing with a variety of personalities. You will participate in a number of group exercises to illustrate principles of teamwork and to give you practice not only diagnosing team problems but also taking action to improve total team performance.
OB206 | Organizational Behavior | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB206 | instructors:Flynn, F. (PI); Laurin, K. (PI); Moore, N. (GP); Summers, M. (GP) videourl:https://novoed.com/msande280-f13/home description:Building on the discipline of social psychology, this course helps you cultivate mindsets and build skills to understand the ways in which organizations and their members affect one another. You will learn frameworks for diagnosing and resolving problems in organizational settings. The course relates theory and research to organizational problems by reviewing basic concepts such as individual motivation and behavior; decision making; interpersonal communication and influence; small group behavior; and dyadic, individual, and inter-group conflict and cooperation.
OB209 | Leadership Laboratory | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB209 | instructors:Corney, A. (PI); Cronkite, J. (PI); Dobbs, C. (PI); Frankel, R. (PI); Keelan, H. (PI); Sharabi Levine, Y. (PI); Tiedens, L. (SI) description:In the Leadership Labs class we ask you to consider the question, "Why would someone follow YOU?" This is a course in which you consider what kind of leader you want to be, what kind of leader you are, and how to align your leadership behavior with your leadership goals. In this class you will have an opportunity to lead your squad and in doing so to discover your strengths and challenges as a leader. You will receive feedback about your approach to leadership and you will have the opportunity to try out new skills and tools. Students will be placed into 5-6 person "squads" and the majority of class time will be spent in these squads. Your squad will meet to work on basic leadership challenges (e.g. managing conflict, assessing a team's progress). There will be the opportunity for a lot of feedback so you can achieve a deeper understanding of the impact of your behavior on others. The squads will do role-play cases and group exercises designed to help you think more deeply about the dynamics in your workgroup and to allow you to practice and experiment with new ways of leading. Each session will be divided into two segments, and one squad member will be the leader for each segment. MBA1 squad members will rotate through the segment leader position. Your squad will have an MBA2 Leadership Fellow assigned to it and he or she will also be present for these meetings in order to provide coaching to the leader and to the squad as whole. Over the course of the quarter your squad will work together on the group project for your Strategy Class. While the deliverable on this project is for your Strategy class, the experience of working together as a team provides a rich opportunity for learning about peer leadership. A number of activities in the weekly Lab will be focused on assessing and reflecting on how you are working together in both the Labs and on your Strategy project.  Finally, the quarter culminates with the Executive Challenge. The Executive Challenge will be an opportunity for you to further refine your leadership skills by engaging with alumni judges in role plays that test your ability to lead effectively. The alumni will provide you feedback and evaluate your performance.
OB278 | MSx: Organizational Behavior | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB278 | instructors:Flynn, F. (PI); Moore, N. (GP) description:Building on the discipline of social psychology, this course helps you cultivate mindsets and build skills to understand the ways in which organizations and their members affect one another. You will learn frameworks for diagnosing and resolving problems in organizational settings. The course relates theory and research to organizational problems by reviewing basic concepts such as individual motivation and behavior; decision making; interpersonal communication and influence; small group behavior; and dyadic, individual, and inter-group conflict and cooperation.
OB324 | The Psychology of Startup Teams | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB324 | instructors:Greer, L. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:The psychology of startup teams is a major determinate of their ultimate success. In this course, we explore the psychological dynamics specific to startup teams and identify ways to effectively lead startup teams to their optimal performance. We will discuss topics such as creating the 'dream team', leadership in start-ups, the art of vision in startups, managing a startup's culture and climate, navigating virtual interactions, and solving common interpersonal problems in startup teams. To address these topics, the course will use a mix of experiential exercises, cases, and exciting guest speakers (including well-known CEOs, venture capitalists, and speciality start-up consultants from Silicon Valley).
OB330 | Leadership Fellows I | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB330 | instructors:Robin, C. (PI); Mattish, P. (GP) description:The Arbuckle Leadership Fellows Program plays an integral role in the GSB leadership curriculum by bringing together a group of talented second years to support the leadership development of the first-year class. OB330, an 8 unit two-quarter MBA2 elective course (in combination with OB331), is the academic component of this program and runs the entirety of both Autumn and Winter Quarters. Both quarters must be completed to receive any units of credit. The course is open only to those students who have applied and been accepted into the Leadership Fellows Program. Interested students apply at the start of Winter Quarter of their first year and undergo a competitive application process, after which successful applicants are invited to take part in the program. Informational meetings are held late in Autumn Quarter and during the first week of Winter Quarter and Fellows are selected from the first year class in mid- Winter Quarter.n nKnowing how to develop others is a crucial leadership competency. In this class, Fellows develop the advanced leadership skills of leading leaders and developing others through coaching and mentoring. Among the competencies developed in this class are: 1) Team Coaching Skills (e.g. facilitating a group, diagnosing group dynamics, debriefing, coaching without undermining the leader), 2) Individual Coaching Skills (e.g. effective inquiry, asking powerful questions, balancing support and challenge, providing effective feedback, holding others accountable, utilizing, valuing and connecting across differences and power differentials, using oneself in service of another's development) and 3) Personal Development Skills (e.g. self-reflection and self-awareness, leveraging strengths, stretching outside one's comfort zone.)n nIn the Autumn Quarter Fellows are assigned to a squad of six MBA1s in Leadership Labs. Fellows guide their MBA1 squad through the learning process in the Labs and provide both individual and team coaching to their MBA1 squad members. In addition to the work with their MBA 1 squad, Fellows provide in-depth 1:1 coaching to three additional MBA1 students who are not members of their squad. This 1:1 coaching begins after Autumn midterms and continues through the end of Winter Quarter.n nFellows classes meet twice a week for 105 minutes. There will be a reading list of conceptual material which will be supplemented during class with lectures discussions and activities. Students will apply concepts through role-playing and experiential exercises during class time as well as in their coaching and mentoring of their MBA1 coachees. Additionally, Fellows will attend weekly Leadership Labs with the first year squad to which they have been assigned and meet 1:1 with MBA1 coachees. Fellows meet regularly with five of their peers in "clinics," standing groups led by Leadership Labs Instructors who are also GSB Leadership Coaches. Fellows meet with their Leadership Coach and clinic approximately every other week during regular class time to discuss specific strategies for working with their first year students. Fellows also periodically meet with their Leadership Coach one-on-one to hone their skills and explore their areas for specific improvement.n nNote: OB374, Interpersonal Dynamics, is a PRE-REQUISITE for this course; students who want to be Fellows are advised to assess whether that is a class they want to take in the spring quarter of their first year. Additionally, signing up for 1:1 coaching by a Fellow as an admit strengthens a MBA1 student's application to the Arbuckle Leadership Fellows program.
OB331 | Leadership Fellows II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB331 | instructors:Robin, C. (PI) description:This course is the continuation of Leadership Fellows I, an 8-unit course that begins in Autumn Quarter. During this quarter Fellows will continue to deepen their coaching and mentoring skills, and will focus exclusively on in-depth 1:1 coaching with three MBA1 coachees (who were not members of their MBA1 squad.) Classes and clinics continue as in Autumn Quarter.
OB333 | Acting with Power | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB333 | instructors:Gruenfeld, D. (PI); Monin, B. (PI); Amarotico, K. (SI); Briggs, M. (SI); Cox, R. (SI); Klein, D. (SI) description:The ability to function effectively within a hierarchy is a crucial determinant of managerial success, yet many people struggle with "authority issues" that make certain hierarchical roles and positions difficult for them. This course draws on the craft of acting and the science of psychology to help students learn to use themselves to develop the characters that can play these roles effectively. This class is designed specifically for students who have trouble "playing" authoritative roles: those who find it difficult to act with power, status, and authority. It will also be useful for students who find it difficult to share power and authority, which involves accepting and deferring to the power and authority of others. Participants will be asked to read, think deeply about, and share some of their own feelings about power and authority, and the origins of those feelings. They will also be asked to prepare for and present a series of in-class performances that involve playing characters with and without power, in scenes that highlight the interactions and relationships between high and low power characters. These performances will take up much of our time during class. Out-of-class assignments will include reading important works on psychology, and on the theory and practice of acting, as well as writing short essays analyzing their own and others' performances.
OB336 | Insight to Outcome | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB336 | instructors:Wurster, T. (PI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:Getting from "strategic insight" to "desired outcome" (achieving the right result) continues to be a core challenge for many organizations and leaders.  In this course, we develop a framework and approach for the "insight to outcome" sequence, study some of the key levers available to managers, and learn from some common pitfalls.  The bulk of the course will be devoted to the practical application of the approach to a number of important business processes, such as merger integration, corporate and business unit transformation, and strategy development.  Some class sessions will involve class visits by topical experts in these applications. The course is designed for second-year MBAs. It will appeal to students interested in an exploratory course - more of a "how to think about it" course than a "toolkit" course.  Grades will be based on class participation and a group project. Class size is limited to 30.
OB345 | Leadership Coaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB345 | instructors:Cronkite, J. (PI); Frankel, R. (SI); Berg, S. (GP) description:The ability to coach others is an often over-looked core competency for leaders. This course will give second year MBA students an opportunity to learn the fundamental skills of coaching, so they can become coaching managers. This course is designed to be very experiential. While conceptual frameworks will be introduced through readings, lectures, demonstrations and discussions, the only real way to learn coaching skills is to both practice coaching, and to be coached. Every class session will provide opportunities to do both:€“ coach and be coached. Because the in-class coaching practice will not be role plays but will actually be real coaching sessions between students, this course will demand a high level of engagement and participation from each student. While OB374 is not required, we highly recommend students take OB374 either previously or concurrently with taking this course in order to maximize your learning.
OB363 | Leadership Perspectives | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB363 | instructors:O'Reilly, C. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Peterson, J. (SI) description:What does it mean to be a principled leader? What role do values play in an organization, and how do successful leaders apply their values in their daily business lives? This course examines the concept of principled leadership and the various ways that leaders try to institutionalize particular values within the organizations they lead. Equally important, it explores the difficult challenges that leaders sometimes face when trying to apply their principles in a tough, fast-paced business environment, where others may not share the same expectations. Through assigned readings, interactive lectures with visiting executives, and weekly small group discussions, students will learn how practicing leaders implement their principles, while reflecting the realities of different cultural expectations and meeting business demands. The course will provide a forum for students to learn directly from practicing leaders and to think introspectively about their own personal values, leadership styles, and long-term aspirations.
OB372 | High-Performance Leadership | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB372 | instructors:Bradford, D. (PI) description:This course asks the question: "What does it take to build high-performance?" The focus is on middle and upper-middle management in contemporary organizations that have complex tasks, exist in a rapidly changing environment, and have highly skilled subordinates. The premise of the course is that traditional methods of management may produce adequate levels of performance but prevent excellence from developing. New approaches to leadership will be presented that are more likely to lead to a truly high-performing system. Time will be spent discussing the components of effective leadership, what a manager can do to build a compelling vision, strong tea,s, and mutual influence sideways and upwards as well as with direct reports. Also, what members can do to support the leader who wants to initiate such changes. In addition to class, students will meet for 2 1/2 hours each week in a Skill Development Group to apply the course material to their own personal development. (While there is minimal overlap in content between OB 372 and OB 374 and these two classes are highly complementary, both require Journals and an evening group. We recommend against taking both classes in the same quarter for workload reasons.) Students will have a choice as to when their SDG will meet. The expectation is full attendance at all SDG meetings. Only one excused class absence. Class on 2/23/15 is required.
OB374 | Interpersonal Dynamics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB374 | instructors:Bristol, S. (PI); Corney, A. (PI); Dexter, G. (PI); Francisco, R. (PI); Robin, C. (PI); Dam, N. (GP); Mattish, P. (GP) description:PRE-QUALIFICATION IS REQUIRED BY THE DEADLINE (APPROXIMATELY FIVE WEEKS BEFORE THE QUARTER BEGINS). The focus of this course is to increase one's competencies in building more effective relationships. Learning is primarily through feedback from other group members. This course is very involving and, at times, can be quite emotional. However, this course is not a substitute for therapy; we deal more with inter-personal issues than with intra-personal ones. If you are in therapy, please talk this over with your therapist and get their advice before enrolling in this course. The students are divided into three 12-person T-groups that meet the same evening of the class. It is very important to note that when you decide to take this course, you make an explicit contract to be actively involved. Attendance to the first class is required for the 1-day/week sections of this class. Attendance to the first two classes is required for the 2-day/week sections of this class. Failure to attend the first class will result in an automatic drop. Students who are waitlisted must attend the first meeting of each section they are waitlisted for in order to secure a place in the course should space open up. It is the student's responsibility to notify respective OB 374 faculty of your attendance and wish to fulfilling your waitlist requirement. T-group meetings for all sections will meet for 3 hours the same evening as 1-day/week class and the same evening of the first day of the 2-day/week section. The class has a weekend retreat the seventh or eighth week (check your specific section) of the course. Because of the highly interactive nature of this course, it is very important that all students attend all sessions. Missing class, class T-group, evening T-group, or any portion of the weekend will negatively influence your grade and may result in a student's grade being dropped one grade level (for each absence). Arriving late on Friday to the weekend will negatively influence your grade level - missing any more of the weekend beyond that will result in a U. Students must pre-qualify before taking this course. Qualification assignments are due approximately five weeks prior to the quarter. For exact due dates and complete assignment details, see: https://sites.google.com/a/stanford.edu/ob374-prequalification/
OB377 | The Paths to Power | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB377 | instructors:Pfeffer, J. (PI); Koning, R. (GP); Moore, N. (GP) description:Power and influence processes are ubiquitous and important in organizations, so leaders need to be able both to understand power and to act on that knowledge. This course has three objectives: 1) increasing students' ability to diagnose and analyze power and politics in organizational situations; 2) increase students' skills in exercising power effectively; and 3) helping students come to terms with the inherent dilemmas and choices, and their own ambivalence, involved in developing and exercising influence. Topics covered include: the sources of power, including individual attributes and structural position; dealing with resistance and conflict; obtaining allies and supporters; maintaining power; how and why power is lost; living in the limelight--the price of having power; preparing oneself to obtain power; and the use of language and symbolism in exercising power.nnnThe class involves a reasonably large number of written, self-reflective assignments as well as two individual projects (doing a power diagnosis on an external organization that is important to the person) and a doing-power project (using the class material during the quarter to gain power in some group or organization). The class emphasis is on both learning the conceptual material and also incorporating it into one's own strategies and behaviors.
OB383 | Lives of Consequence: How Individuals Discover Paths to Meaningful Engagement | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB383 | instructors:Kramer, R. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:This Bass Seminar will examine the lives of extra-ordinary individuals who have made exceptional contributions to society, either through their impact on business, politics, science, social activism, or the arts. We will take a close look, for example, at creative individuals such as Steve Jobs, George Lucas, and Pixar's Brad Bird; political achievers such as Robert F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King and Margaret Thatcher; business leaders such as Bill and Melinda Gates, Whole Foods CEO John Mackey, and Starbuck's Howard Schultz (to name just a few). We will use these examples to develop useful ideas about the narrative unfolding of creative and extra-ordinary lives. In addition, using theories and evidence from the social and behavioral sciences, we will develop a conceptual framework for thinking about individuals' "paths to extra-ordinary achievement." Drawing on psychological and philosophical theory and research, we will also examine how human achievement relates to happiness and the perception of meaning in one's life. You will have a chance to work in small groups to study individuals or domains of special interest. Students will also have an opportunity to apply the framework to their own lives using a series of enjoyable reflective exercises, including writing and public speaking exercises. The seminar will be very discussion oriented and quite lively. The goal of the seminar is to change how you think about your self and your life!
OB388 | Leadership in the Entertainment Industry | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB388 | instructors:Guttentag, B. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:The entertainment industry is one of the largest and most important industries in the world. It is an industry characterized by tremendous opportunities and great uncertainties. The industry is currently undergoing tremendous change as new technologies transform the way entertainment is produced and disseminated throughout the world. For all of these reasons, the dynamic industry creates tremendous challenges for entrepreneurial students interested in leaving an artistic or creative imprint on the world. This course is designed to help prepare students for careers in the media industries, and to explore leadership within them. The industry is truly an intersection of art and commerce, and a major portion of the course will involve bringing to the class leaders who represent key areas of the entertainment industry, both on the business and creative sides. As with any business, the entertainment industry is driven by the vision of its leaders. These leaders daily make financial and artistic decisions, and manage staff and productions with the goal of producing entertainment product meant to be seen as widely as possible, and meant to make a profit. It is hoped that through interaction with these speakers, students taking this course will gain a greater understanding of the industry and what it takes to succeed in it. Further, the students will see the potential of strong leadership and how it works to advance entertainment companies and the films and TV programming they produce. Topics to be examined include the process of project development, production, and marketing; emerging technologies and their impact on the industry; the roles studio and network executives, directors, film and television producers, writers, actors, agents, and others play in the making and distribution of film and television productions.
OB522 | Managing Social Networks in Organizations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB522 | instructors:Hasan, S. (PI) description:This course is designed to improve your effectiveness a manager by introducing you to both the concepts and tools that are part of the "new science of social networks" as they apply to organizations. In this course, you will develop the skills to understand social networks and recognize social capital, both offline and online, as well as be able to identify key elements of your own and others? social networks that enhance competitive capabilities. Topics to be covered include how social networks affect power and influence, leadership, innovation and the generation of novel ideas, careers, organizational change and competitive advantage. Additional topics to be covered include the increasing importance of online social networks in organizational life and the importance of social cognition and how it can be used to enhance social capital. At the conclusion of this course you will have the skills to map out social networks, diagnose features of the networks that either help or hinder the performance of individuals, groups and companies, and be able to manage important features of social networks in organizations.
OB527 | The Art of Self-Coaching | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB527 | instructors:Batista, E. (PI) description:In 2009 a graduating student said to me, "A number of coaching resources here at the GSB have helped me develop as a person over the last two years. But after I leave school and no longer have access to those resources, how will I continue to coach myself?" This course is an attempt to help you answer that question.nnI define "self-coaching" as the process of guiding our own growth and development, particularly through periods of transition, in both the professional and personal realms. In this course you'll explore a range of practices and disciplines intended to help you build on what you've learned about yourself over the last two years and continue that process after graduation.nnWhile this is a self-directed process, it's not a solitary one, and you'll work with classmates in a variety of configurations (pairs, trios, small groups), so be prepared to discuss meaningful personal issues with your fellow students.
OB547 | Entrepreneurial Leadership: The Six Essential Skills of Extraordinary Entrepreneurs | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB547 | instructors:O'Reilly, C. (PI); Wilkinson, A. (SI); Haga, C. (GP) description:How do some people turn ideas into enterprises that endure? Why do some people succeed why so many others fail? Based on more than 200 interviews with leading entrepreneurs conducted over the past five years by Amy Wilkinson, this course will focus on the six skills of successful entrepreneurs. The class will include brief lectures and class discussions with a set of the successful entrepreneurs featured in a recent book authored by the instructor, "The Creator's Code." The class is designed to help students integrate these skills into their own future ventures.
OB555 | Mastering Life's Moments: The Challenge of Optimizing your Experience | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB555 | instructors:Kramer, R. (PI); Haga, C. (GP) description:Our personal and professional lives are made up of a series of moments. Some of these moments present great opportunity, with the prospect of personal change and even transformative growth. Other moments contain the seeds of setback and even derailment of our most coveted plans. Some of life's moments are planned, while others catch us completely by surprise. Whatever moments we are afforded, we must make the most of them. This new seminar will explore what we know about the psychology of "optimal experience." We will examine how and why some individuals harvest so much joy, zest and sense of attainment from their moments, while others squander their moments or dig themselves into deeper holes when trying to respond to them. We will also examine how and why some people respond brilliantly to adversity, mastering even the most tragic moments that life presents, while others flounder and fold. To inform our thinking on this vital topic, the seminar will include a series of rich and provocative readings from psychology, behavioral economics, organizational theory and philosophy. Additionally, the seminar will include a series of compelling video cases illustrating both optimal and suboptimal responses to experience. To make the seminar more personally involving and useful to you, you will also engage in a series of reflective writing and experiential exercises. Whenever I offer a new course, I make a promise to the students who take it. For this course I promise you an intellectually deep and personally meaningful exploration of what it means to "use up" your life well. Put another way, I promise you some great educational moments in your GSB life!
OB568 | How to Make Ideas Stick | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB568 | instructors:Heath, C. (PI) description:This class will explore the properties shared by ideas that stick with people and change the way they think and act.  The course is based on the framework in the book Made to Stick and focuses on hands-on exercises that will teach you how to transform your messages to make them stick: How do you get attention for your idea in a crowded marketplace of ideas?  How can you convey complex information quickly?  How do you make a broad, abstract idea concrete and tangible enough for people to understand?  How do you provide credibility for your idea without resorting to dry statistics? Although the exercises in this course are fun and generally short, students in the past have said that they do require a lot of thinking time outside of class in order to apply the course principles to a specific message.  This is particularly true of the final project which involves improving the message of a specific live client (e.g., a friend with a start-up business, the recruiting materials of a former employer).  This course will be especially useful for entrepreneurs who must pitch their ideas to customers, investors, and potential employees and for students in the nonprofit sector where resources for spreading ideas are often thin.
OB581 | Negotiations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB581 | instructors:Halevy, N. (PI); Neale, M. (PI); Katz, J. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Summers, M. (GP) description:This course is designed to improve students' skills in all phases of a negotiation: understanding prescriptive and descriptive negotiation theory as it applies to dyadic and multiparty negotiations, to buyer-seller transactions and the resolution of disputes, to the development of negotiation strategy and to the management of integrative and distributive aspects of the negotiation process. The course is based on a series of simulated negotiations in a variety of contexts including one-on-one, multi-party, and team negotiations. When playing a role in a simulated conflict, you will be free to try out tactics that might feel uncomfortable in a real one. You will get feedback from your classmates about how you come across. You will have an opportunity to reflect on your experience in your negotiation paper. In sum, you can use this course to expand your repertoire of conflict management and negotiation skills, to hone your skills, and to become more adept in choosing when to apply each skill. nnnThis course represents a shorter, more intense version of OB 381-Conflict Management and Negotiations. Students should not take both courses, as there is considerable overlap in course content. Attendance and participation in the negotiation exercises is mandatory.
OB601 | Organizational Ecology (SOC 366A) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB601 | instructors:Hannan, M. (PI) description:This seminar examines theoretical and methodological issues in the study of the ecology of organizations. Particular attention is given to the dynamics that characterize the interface between organizational populations and their audiences.
OB622 | Topics in Social Network Analysis: Structure and Dynamics | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB622 | instructors:Hasan, S. (PI) description:This course provides coverage of both introductory and intermediate topics in social network analysis with a primary focus on recent developments in theory, methods and substantive applications. We will begin the course with a brief overview of introductory themes and concepts from various disciplines that have contributed to social network theory, including sociology, anthropology, social psychology, and organizations. Introductory topics to be included: centrality, cliques, structural and regular equivalence and cognitive social structures. The primary topics to be covered in this course include the application of network theory to the study of careers, competition, innovation, inequality/stratification, and recent research on IT mediated networks, as well as an examination of network formation and dynamics.  The course will also provide hands-on experience applying social network methods in empirical research. Students will have an opportunity to learn some modern network analysis methods and apply them to network data using the R programming language. No prior experience with social network analysis or software is required.
OB632 | Social Movements | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB632 | instructors:Soule, S. (PI); Rao, H. (SI) description:Social movement actors have helped initiate some of the major social, cultural, and political changes of the modern era. It is hard to imagine a major political or social reform that did not find its origins in a social movement or collective action. Social movement scholarship has flourished in political sociology and has recently gained a foothold in organizational theory as an explanation for innovation and organizational change.  The purpose of this course is to provide you a roadmap for you to roam the terrain of movements and organizations, and be prepared to generate original research ideas that extend inquiry in your chosen area of research.nOrganizations and industries are frequent targets of collective action. Social movement activists frequently target organizations (e.g., corporations, universities) in order to bring about political and social change.  Because most organizations are not democracies, movements must find ways to penetrate their closed boundaries if they are to have an influence inside organizations. At the same time, social movements make good use of organizations to carry out their own goals, creating structures that help them carry out their goals, reproduce their missions and tactics, and effectively generate collective action.  Social movement organizations develop as vehicles for social change. One purpose of this course is to examine the complex relationship between social movements and organizations. nIn order to understand the empirical link between movements and organizations, we will rely on social movement and organizational theory. Like the phenomena they seek to explain, these theories are strongly intertwined. Since the 1970s, organizational theory has strongly influenced social movement theory. Mayer Zald, John McCarthy, and others imported ideas from the burgeoning field of organizational theory to move social movement scholarship beyond naïve conceptions of collective action and crowd behavior.  Under the umbrella of resource mobilization and political process theory, organizational theory strongly influenced our understanding of the structural underpinnings of collective action. In recent years, social movement scholars have also begun examining the culture and social psychological dimensions of social movement organizations. nDuring most of the 1980s and 1990s, the link between social movement theory and organizational theory was a one-way road. Social movement scholars did most of the conceptual borrowing and organizational theorists, for the most part, ignored political sociology. However, in the last decade the opposing lane has been opened.  The rise of economic sociology â€“ a large theoretical domain interested in the overlap between market, political, and social processes â€“ and a growing demand among organizational theorists (especially in institutional theory) for mechanisms that explain purposeful, strategic action (i.e., agency) created fertile grounds for social movement theory. In the first part of the 2000s, leading scholars from both fields began holding conferences and workshops and a few articles were published seeking to show the value of social movement concepts to organizational theory.  This effort to link the two literatures has been well received. As more scholars began importing social movement concepts to explain organizational phenomena, organizational scholarship turned its attention (again) to issues related to power, politics, and contestation. The convergence of the two research streams has also begun to spur theoretical innovation, especially in bridging structural and cultural explanations for organizational change.nIn this course we will cover topics that explore how movements use organizations to propel change and that examine how movements help generate social change by targeting organizations. We will also evaluate the theoretical developments at the nexus of these two literatures, identifying the major innovations as well as looking for new research opportunities.
OB652 | Statistical Methods for Behavioral and Social Sciences | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB652 | instructors:Monin, B. (PI); Thomas, E. (PI) description:For students who seek experience and advanced training in empirical research methods. Analysis of experimental data with methods ranging from simple chi-square to multiple regression models, including an introduction to mixed models. Uses the free statistical computing package R. Prerequisite: An intro stats class (Same as Psych 252 -- Co-taught with Ewart Thomas).
OB670 | Designing Social Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB670 | instructors:Sorensen, J. (PI) description:This is a course in the design of social research, with a particular emphasis on research field (i.e., non-laboratory) settings. As such, the course is a forum for discussing and developing an understanding of the different strategies social theorists employ to explain social processes, develop theories, and make these theories as believable as possible. In general, these issues will be discussed in the context of sociological research on organizations, but this will not be the exclusive focus of the course.  A range of topics will be covered, for example: formulating and motivating research questions; varieties of explanation; experimental and quasi-experimental methods, including natural experiments; counterfactual models; conceptualization and measurement; sampling and case selection; qualitative and quantitative approaches. This course is particularly oriented toward developing an appreciation of the tradeoffs of different approaches. It is well suited to Ph.D. students working on qualifying papers and dissertation proposals.
OB671 | Social Psychology of Organizations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB671 | instructors:Heath, C. (PI) description:This seminar focuses on social psychological theories and research relevant to organizational behavior. It reviews the current research topics in micro-organizational behavior, linking these to foundations in cognitive and social psychology and sociology. Topics include models of attribution, decision making, emotion, coordination, influence and persuasion, and the psychology of power and culture. Prerequisites: Enrollment in a PhD program, and a graduate-level social psychology course. Also listed as Sociology 361.
OB675 | Micro Research Methods | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB675 | instructors:Miller, D. (PI) description:The purpose of this course is to develop students' skill at designing, executing, interpreting, and describing micro-organizational and social psychological research. The course will have a practical focus and will focus on questions such as how to identify and formulate a tractable research question, how to decide on an appropriate research design and strategy; how to operationalize independent and dependent variables, and how to build a research paper.
OB678 | The Design and Process of Experimental Research | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB678 | instructors:Laurin, K. (PI) description:This year-long course takes a hands-on approach to learning about experimental research.  It will cover the entire process of experimental research from idea and hypothesis generation to study design, analysis, and publication. The topical content will be customized to the specific interests of the enrolled students, but generally will be concerned with questions about behavioral phenomena in organizational contexts.
OB691 | PhD Directed Reading (ACCT 691, FINANCE 691, GSBGEN 691, HRMGT 691, MGTECON 691, MKTG 691, OIT 691, POLECON 691, STRAMGT 691) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB691 | instructors:Barnett, W. (PI); Burgelman, R. (PI); Carroll, G. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Flynn, F. (PI); Goldberg, A. (PI); Greer, L. (PI); Gruenfeld, D. (PI); Halevy, N. (PI); Hannan, M. (PI); Hasan, S. (PI); Heath, C. (PI); Kramer, R. (PI); Laurin, K. (PI); Lowery, B. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Monin, B. (PI); Neale, M. (PI); O'Reilly, C. (PI); Pfeffer, J. (PI); Rao, H. (PI); Sorensen, J. (PI); Soule, S. (PI); Tiedens, L. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Shaker, S. (GP) description:This course is offered for students requiring specialized training in an area not covered by existing courses. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the reading.
OB692 | PhD Dissertation Research (ACCT 692, FINANCE 692, GSBGEN 692, HRMGT 692, MGTECON 692, MKTG 692, OIT 692, POLECON 692, STRAMGT 692) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB692 | instructors:Barnett, W. (PI); Burgelman, R. (PI); Carroll, G. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Flynn, F. (PI); Goldberg, A. (PI); Greer, L. (PI); Gruenfeld, D. (PI); Halevy, N. (PI); Hannan, M. (PI); Hasan, S. (PI); Heath, C. (PI); Kramer, R. (PI); Laurin, K. (PI); Lowery, B. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Monin, B. (PI); Neale, M. (PI); O'Reilly, C. (PI); Pfeffer, J. (PI); Rao, H. (PI); Sorensen, J. (PI); Soule, S. (PI); Tiedens, L. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Shaker, S. (GP) description:This course is elected as soon as a student is ready to begin research for the dissertation, usually shortly after admission to candidacy. To register, a student must obtain permission from the faculty member who is willing to supervise the research.
OB802 | TGR Dissertation (ACCT 802, FINANCE 802, GSBGEN 802, HRMGT 802, MGTECON 802, MKTG 802, OIT 802, POLECON 802, STRAMGT 802) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=OB802 | instructors:Barnett, W. (PI); Burgelman, R. (PI); Carroll, G. (PI); Ferguson, J. (PI); Flynn, F. (PI); Goldberg, A. (PI); Greer, L. (PI); Gruenfeld, D. (PI); Halevy, N. (PI); Hannan, M. (PI); Hasan, S. (PI); Heath, C. (PI); Kramer, R. (PI); Laurin, K. (PI); Lowery, B. (PI); Miller, D. (PI); Monin, B. (PI); Neale, M. (PI); O'Reilly, C. (PI); Pfeffer, J. (PI); Rao, H. (PI); Sorensen, J. (PI); Soule, S. (PI); Tiedens, L. (PI); Haga, C. (GP); Moore, N. (GP); Shaker, S. (GP) description:
