STRAMGT110Q | Making Sense of Strategy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT110Q | instructors:Demarest, D. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:Get the strategy right, and the chance for success is great. Nowhere is this more evident than in today's world of major challenges. Strategy is at the heart of problem solving and achieving objectives, yet few people can define strategy, much less understand how to conceptualize, design, and execute effective strategies that yield the best outcomes.This course will meet once a week to focus on interesting and engaging case studies, each of which illustrates a key ingredient of strategy. Some are well-known historical events, while others are less obvious, but all have a strategic lesson to share. They are quite diverse, from the planning of a high-risk rescue in the Colorado Rockies, to a product crisis in a Fortune 50 company, to a little-known failed military mission of WWII, to a commercial airline disaster. The ability to think through challenging and varied scenarios is both instructive and mind-stretching. There will be some pre-reading on each case study and there may be a field trip for students to put their lessons into practice. The course is designed to be highly interactive; all to enable students to unravel the mystery and power of strategic thinking. Students will also have the opportunity to select and analyze a case reflecting interests of their own. This course can help students not only prepare for a career in a range of fields, but also as they meet the challenges of their current coursework. Problem-solving skills are central in every walk of life; this seminar can help students build a stronger foundation for sound decision-making.
STRAMGT207 | Strategic Leadership | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT207 | instructors:Ferguson, J. (PI); Goldberg, A. (PI); Sorensen, J. (PI); Davis, S. (GP); Reid, E. (GP) description:This course examines fundamental issues of general management and leadership within an organization. You will learn about setting an organization's strategic direction, aligning structure to implement strategy, and leading individuals within the firm. You will master concepts, frameworks, and tools to assess an industry and a firm's competitive environment, and to craft alternatives. You will study the interplay among formal structure, informal networks, and culture in shaping organizational performance. By integrating leadership theory, the lessons of practical application, and your own experience, you will develop skills and capabilities essential to leading others. And you'll gain a better understanding of your own leadership preferences, strengths, and weaknesses.
STRAMGT210 | Managerial Skills | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT210 | instructors:Brady, S. (PI); Dodson, D. (PI); Livermore, A. (PI); Peterson, J. (PI); Weaver, G. (PI); Stock, K. (GP) description:In the Managerial Skills Labs we examine several common managerial challenges faced by executives. Together with Faculty, students explore these topics using four case examples, each asking students to evaluate a series of situations, develop alternatives for their resolution, and ultimately recommend and implement a course of action from the point of view of the company's owner/manager. We have selected small to midsized businesses as the context for these discussions in order to highlight the impact that key decisions and their implementation can have on the broader organization. Class preparation should include not only analysis and conclusions, but also specific recommendations on implementation. Students should come to class prepared to role play important conversations between management and other key individuals.
STRAMGT258 | MSx: Strategic Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT258 | instructors:Hartmann, W. (PI) description:This course deals with the overall general management of the business enterprise. Extensive case studies of a variety of companies of differing size, industry, and current conditions provide the basis for the comprehensive analysis and establishment of a strategic management approach for the organization. Frameworks are presented for strategy identification and evaluation; assessing industry attractiveness; evaluating the firm's capabilities, resources, and position; determining the optimal horizontal and vertical scope of the firm; entering into strategic alliances and joint ventures; and formulating and implementing strategy in multi-business organizations.
STRAMGT259 | MSx: Generative Leadership | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT259 | instructors:Klein, D. (PI) description:Generative Leadership: How to Create Innovative Ideas and Convey Them with ImpactnnThere are three major sections to this course - Design Thinking, The Improvisational Mindset, and High Performance Communication.nnDesign ThinkingnnOutcome:nParticipants learn to employ User Centered Design as promoted by the Stanford d.school. They become adept at Empathizing with the end user, practicing focused Need Finding, Defining the Problem, Ideating, Rapidly Prototyping and Adapting to Feedback.nnExperiences:nParticipants learn the Design Thinking process through a hands-on, collaborative design challenge, like redesigning the Briefcase for a specific user.nnThe Improvisational MindsetnnOutcome:nThe participants increase their ability to respond flexibly to novel situations and to generate innovative solutions on a collaborative, creative team. The mindset is cultivated by practicing 5 key principles. Say "Yes, and". Treat Mistakes as Gifts. Inspire your Partner. Dare to be Obvious. Notice the World.nnExperiences:nThe key principles are taught through a series of immersive theater exercises derived from Johnstone, Spolin, and Ryan. Valuable readings include IMPROV WISDOM, by Patricia Ryan and journal articles on improv and brainstorming.nnHigh Performance CommunicationnnOutcome:nThe final segment of the class is a chance to apply the principles of User Centered Design and the Improvisational Mindset to design and deliver messages that go beyond just transmitting information - they get results. Participants successfully use a version of the Design Thinking process to rapidly develop content that is tuned to the audience's needs, and that they can deliver in a way that is agile and responsive to real time feedbacknnExperiencesnGenerative Leadership culminates in a group presentation designed to influence key stakeholders. To be successful, participants will have to draw on all sections of the course. AS WE SPEAK is our text.
STRAMGT308 | Entrepreneurship from the Perspective of Women | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT308 | instructors:Mandelbaum, F. (PI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:This seminar will showcase successful women entrepreneurs and their professional and personal journeys.  We will study how they navigated finding an idea, forming and building a team, being an effective leader, raising money, overcoming setbacks, and assembling a board.  We will explore some of the unique challenges women face when approaching entrepreneurship.  Speakers will also include female venture capitalists and social entrepreneurs, and male entrepreneurs.  The class will use cases, panel discussions, readings and videos and social time with the panelists.nnThis class is appropriate for women and men considering starting a high-impact venture as well as those who are just curious about entrepreneurship. This class will help you understand your own capabilities and interest in being an entrepreneur.
STRAMGT313 | The New Business Ideas Workshop | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT313 | instructors:Reiss, P. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP) description:This workshop provides students with a forum through which they can develop and receive feedback on a new venture idea. It covers: the process of finding new business ideas; how to research and vet a new idea; how to pivot an idea; how to build a business model around an idea; and how to ultimately pitch the idea to others. The workshop is targeted at students who do not have a new business idea or are in the very early stages of thinking about an idea. As part of the workshop, students will spend time helping classmates think through and improve their ideas. Students have the option to present their ideas at the end of the quarter to outside guests or submit a progress report.
STRAMGT315 | From Launch to Liquidity | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT315 | instructors:Rauh, J. (PI); Davis, S. (GP); Levav, J. (SI); Rao, H. (SI) description:This course considers the challenges faced by start-ups in achieving liquidity. We take the perspectives of organizational behavior, marketing, and finance, and examine forks in the road faced by firms that have already launched products. Marketing topics include how to market firms for sale and calculating the addressable market. Organizational topics include hiring and firing, and the role of founders after sales. Finance topics include how the choice between sale and IPO affects value realized, and private equity exits.
STRAMGT321 | Create a New Venture: From Idea to Launch I | http://STRAMGT321.stanford.edu | instructors:Rohan, D. (PI); Woo, Y. (GP) description:This is an integrated lab course in Entrepreneurship designed to teach students the process of creating a new viable venture - from idea to launch. It is a dynamic and interactive course organized around projects undertaken by teams of 3 to 4 registered students from the MSx and MBA programs, together with other graduate students within Stanford who bring expertise of particular relevance to the idea being pursued. This course is designed not only for students with immediate entrepreneurial aspirations, but also for any student considering starting an entrepreneurial venture at some point in his or her career. The course is a two quarter class, with admission to the class by team and idea. In the winter quarter, teams will research, craft, and morph their idea into a viable business concept. In the spring quarter they will further refine their concept and develop a strategy and plan to attract financial, human and other resources. At the end of the spring quarter, teams will present their plan to a panel of experts and potential investors to simulate the funding process. The new course builds on a predecessor course S356 "Evaluating Entrepreneurial Opportunities" and encapsulates new and important research and findings as they relate to the process of new venture creation. The teaching method is primarily learning by doing (LBD) through a structured process and supported by relevant lectures. Learning is further enhanced through meetings with the instructor, coaching by experienced mentors and review by peers. Field research as well as prototype product development are integral to the course. Since admittance to S321/S322 is by team and the quality of their idea, team formation takes place during the autumn quarter. Informal student mixers and seminars will be held to facilitate team formation and idea generation. Each team of 3-4 students should preferably consist of 1 or more MSx students and graduate students from the MBA program or other Schools - Engineering, Medicine, Law, Science, Education - to bring diversity and depth to the team. The application-selection process is described on the S321/S322 website.
STRAMGT322 | Create a New Venture: From Idea to Launch II | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT322 | instructors:Rohan, D. (PI); Woo, Y. (GP) description:This is an integrated lab course in Entrepreneurship designed to teach students the process of creating a new viable venture - from idea to launch. It is a dynamic and interactive course organized around projects undertaken by teams of 3 to 4 registered students from the MSx and MBA programs, together with other graduate students within Stanford who bring expertise of particular relevance to the idea being pursued. This course is designed not only for students with immediate entrepreneurial aspirations, but also for any student considering starting an entrepreneurial venture at some point in his or her career. The course is a two quarter class, with admission to the class by team and idea. In the winter quarter, teams will research, craft, and morph their idea into a viable business concept. In the spring quarter they will further refine their concept and develop a strategy and plan to attract financial, human and other resources. At the end of the spring quarter, teams will present their plan to a panel of experts and potential investors to simulate the funding process. The new course builds on a predecessor course S356 "Evaluating Entrepreneurial Opportunities" and encapsulates new and important research and findings as they relate to the process of new venture creation. The teaching method is primarily learning by doing (LBD) through a structured process and supported by relevant lectures. Learning is further enhanced through meetings with the instructor, coaching by experienced mentors and review by peers. Field research as well as prototype product development are integral to the course. Since admittance to S321/S322 is by team and the quality of their idea, team formation takes place during the autumn quarter. Informal student mixers and seminars will be held to facilitate team formation and idea generation. Each team of 3-4 students should preferably consist of 1 or more MSx students and graduate students from the MBA program or other Schools - Engineering, Medicine, Law, Science, Education - to bring diversity and depth to the team. The application-selection process is described on the S321/S322 website.
STRAMGT323 | Design Thinking in the Context of Global Scale Organizations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT323 | instructors:Shiv, B. (PI); Yen, S. (SI); Ferrero, M. (GP) description:Driving innovation at large global organizations is extremely challenging. As organizations establish and become successful, the culture and processes calcify and resisting changes becomes the norm.  As a result, organizations fail to reframe big problems, identify unmet needs and challenge the status quo.  The goal of this course is to prepare students for design thinking in complex, globally distributed organizations.  Specifically, the goal is to impart students with a personal sense of creative confidence but also (1) be confident in their ability to navigate global scale organizations that are multi-disciplinary and multi-cultural, (2) recognize patterns of resistant behavior, (3) create coalitions of support at different levels of the organization (and externally), (4) be willing to adapt, adjust and even drop what they have learned about design thinking for a particular situation, (5) be patient, gritty and have the tenacity to drive change and (6) leverage technology to come up with design solutions.  Students in this course will work in interdisciplinary teams to work on projects that will be sponsored by external partners including for and non-profit businesses and government agencies.  The projects will be on real world challenges that global scale organizations face and on finding solutions using design thinking principles and technology. This full immersion course provides the opportunity for students to get practical training in design thinking, solve big problems while also figuring out a way to leverage design thinking and technology to create a lasting and global impact.
STRAMGT325 | Starting and Growing a Social Venture | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT325 | instructors:Siegelman, R. (PI); Woo, Y. (GP); Hattendorf, L. (SI) description:This course is for students who may want to undertake an entrepreneurial career by starting and/or joining the senior management team of a social venture.  It covers all phases of a venture - ideation and venture creation, resource acquisition, managing growth and harvest/exit.  The instructors believe, for the most part, social ventures (which include both for-profit and non-profit structures) should be treated and managed like profit maximizing ventures, and many topics and themes encountered in this course will be similar to those covered in other entrepreneurial courses, such as Formation of New Ventures.  Of course there are important differences related specifically to social ventures, some of which are critical to understand properly to effectively start and manage a social enterprise.  We will highlight these differences throughout our sessions, so while that the lessons learned in this class can be generalized to all ventures, we do not advise you to take this class unless you really want to learn about social ventures.  All the cases used in class and class discussions will be about early stage companies and organizations in the social venture space. Guests, both social entrepreneurs active in the field, and social impact investors, are heavily featured in class discussions and are an important part of the classroom experience.
STRAMGT350 | Global Value Chain Strategies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT350 | instructors:Lee, H. (PI); Marks, M. (SI); Pham, J. (GP) description:This course addresses how the increasingly large number of firms that use or provide outsourcing and "offshoring" can create a sustainable competitive advantage. Students who complete the course will have a framework and a set of concepts that can be used to position a firm for strategic advantage in these supply networks. Positioning in and strategic analysis of product markets is covered in a variety of courses and books. A distinguishing feature of this course is that it addresses positioning and strategic analysis for firms operating as part of a network of providers, sellers and buyers... the factor markets. The course takes a general management perspective and provides examples through cases and discussions with visitors. The major theme of the course is that these firms must carefully consider how they position themselves in both the product and factor markets.
STRAMGT351 | Building and Managing Professional Sales Organizations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT351 | instructors:Bowman, K. (PI); Levine, P. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Stevens, M. (SI) description:The focus of this class is on the challenges and key issues associated with the creation and management of a professional sales organization.  Our emphasis is developing and managing the selling effort of business-to-business and business-to-consumer capital goods and services.  There will be relatively little emphasis on sales technique (i.e., students should not expect a course on "How to be a Better Salesperson").  The course is organized to follow the development of the sales function from strategic inception through to execution and implementation:  choosing a go-to-market model (e.g., direct sales, VARs, OEMs, hybrid models); building and structuring the sales organization (e.g., sales learning curve, organizational structure, allocating territories and quotas); and managing the sales force (e.g., hiring/firing, compensation, forecasting, culture).  We will address these topics in the context of both early stage ventures and later stage enterprises.
STRAMGT353 | Entrepreneurship: Formation of New Ventures | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT353 | instructors:Ellis, J. (PI); Foster, G. (PI); Leslie, M. (PI); Reiss, P. (PI); Siegel, R. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Brady, S. (SI); Chambers, J. (SI); Chess, R. (SI); Child, M. (SI); Rachleff, A. (SI); Rojas, D. (GP) description:This course is offered for students who at some time may want to undertake an entrepreneurial career by pursuing opportunities leading to partial or full ownership and control of a business. The course deals with case situations from the point of view of the entrepreneur/manager rather than the passive investor. Many cases involve visitors, since the premise is that opportunity and action have large idiosyncratic components. Students must assess opportunity and action in light of the perceived capabilities of the individuals and the nature of the environments they face. The course is integrative and will allow students to apply many facets of their business school education. Each section will have a specific focus, please select the instructor(s) with your interests: Leslie, Rachleff - High tech ventures; Ellis, Chambers, Childs - Diverse types of ventures; Foster - Diverse types of ventures; Siegel, Brady - High tech emphasis, but diverse types of ventures; Reiss, Chess - Very early stage ventures.
STRAMGT354 | Entrepreneurship and Venture Capital | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT354 | instructors:Wendell, P. (PI); Ziebelman, P. (PI); Khan, S. (GP); Glynn, J. (SI); Stock, K. (GP); Nasr, R. (SI) description:Many of America's most successful entrepreneurial companies have been substantially influenced by professionally managed venture capital. This relationship is examined from both the entrepreneur's and the venture capitalist's perspective. From the point of view of the entrepreneur, the course considers how significant business opportunities are identified, planned, and built into real companies; how resources are matched with opportunity; and how, within this framework, entrepreneurs seek capital and other assistance from venture capitalists or other sources. From the point of view of the venture capitalist, the course considers how potential entrepreneurial investments are evaluated, valued, structured, and enhanced; how different venture capital strategies are deployed; and how venture capitalists raise and manage their own funds. The course includes a term-long project where students work in teams (4-5 students per team) to write a business plan (or a business model canvas) for a venture of the team's choosing.
STRAMGT355 | Managing Growing Enterprises | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT355 | instructors:Dodson, D. (PI); Ellis, J. (PI); Grousbeck, H. (PI); Peterson, J. (PI); Bligh, S. (GP); Stock, K. (GP); Woo, Y. (GP); Dodson, D. (SI); Kelly, P. (SI); Taweel, K. (SI) description:This course is offered for students who, in the near term, aspire to the management and full or partial ownership of a new or newly-acquired business. The seminar, which is limited to 40 students, has a strong implementation focus, and deals in some depth with certain selected, generic entrepreneurial issues, viewed from the perspective of the owner/manager. Broad utilization is made of case materials, background readings, visiting experts, and role playing. Throughout the course, emphasis is placed on the application of analytical tools to administrative practice.
STRAMGT356 | The Startup Garage: Design | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT356 | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Wood, D. (SI); Woo, Y. (GP); Galen, D. (SI); Gur, S. (SI); Lin, R. (SI); Price, R. (GP); Siegelman, R. (SI) description:Startup Garage is an intensive hands-on, project-based course, in which graduate students will apply the concepts of design thinking, engineering, finance, business and organizational skills to design and test new business concepts that address real world needs . Our aspiration is to help teams identify an unmet customer need, design new products or services that meet that need, and develop business models to support the creation and launch of startup products or services. Even those teams that do not successfully launch a venture, or individuals who decide not to move forward, will learn critical, cutting-edge techniques about starting and launching a venture. Collaborative, multi-disciplinary teams will identify and work with users, domain experts, and industry participants to identify and deeply understand customer needs, then proceed to design products or services and a business model to address those needs. .Each team will conceive, design, build, and field-test critical aspects of both the product or service and the business model. This course is offered by the Graduate School of Business. It integrates methods from human-centered design, lean startup, and business model planning. The course focuses on developing entrepreneurial skills (using short lectures and in-class exercises) and then applying these skills to specific problems faced by those users identified by the teams. Teams will get out of the building and interact directly with users and advisors to develop a deep understanding of the challenges they face and to field test their proposed services, products, and business models.
STRAMGT359 | Aligning Start-ups with their Market | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT359 | instructors:Barnett, W. (PI); Rachleff, A. (SI) description:Most everyone associated with technology start-ups would agree that the most important initial characteristic of a successful endeavor is a compelling vision. The journey from vision to escape velocity is highly dependent on management's ability to translate that vision into a product or service that closely and economically addresses a customer's significant point of pain. Without a tight product market fit, the start-up's offering will not be able to break through the market's gravitational forces which strongly favor existing solutions, resulting in likely failure. With tight product/market fit, it is far more likely the company will achieve repeatable and growing sales success. Conventional wisdom dictates that a start-up launching a new product should focus its energy understanding what the market wants (problem) and then translating that knowledge into an optimal set of product features (solution). This is the ideal strategy if one is attacking a market that already exists. However if the start-up pursues an entirely new market or re-segments an existing market, customers are unlikely to be able to articulate the benefits and features they will need. The approaches required to pursue new or re-segmented markets are radically different from those applied to existing markets. As a result it is not relentless execution and exploitation of a well understood market that will lead to success, but discovery of a new market or segment that is in need of the product as envisioned. If done well, this process of finding the optimal product/market fit has a disproportionate impact on success. Our intention is to create a course that explores the many issues associated with optimizing product/market fit. Two group papers comprise 50% of a student's grade with class participation representing the remainder. STRAMGT 353 is recommended prior to taking this course.
STRAMGT366 | The Startup Garage: Testing and Launch | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT366 | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Wood, D. (SI); Woo, Y. (GP); Galen, D. (SI); Glickman, M. (SI); Gur, S. (SI); Siegelman, R. (SI) description:Teams that concluded at the end of the fall quarter that their preliminary product or service and business model suggest a path to viability, continue with the winter quarter course. In this course, the teams develop more elaborate versions of their product/service and business model , perform a series of experiments to test the key hypotheses about their product and business model, and prepare and present an investor pitch for a seed round of financing to a panel of seasoned investors  and entrepreneurs.n nThe key premise for the course is that a robust venture creation process involves  development and validation of a series of hypotheses about a new product or service, its value proposition, and how the business will acquire customers, make money, scale up to achieve profitability, and raise funds to achieve the key milestones to profitability. In Startup Garage: Testing and Launch, teams will learn how to precisely formulate these hypotheses and early stage milestones, and how to test them using one or more of the following low-cost approaches: a) online experiments with minimally viable products; b) interviews with partners, advisors, investors, and business experts; c) analogies from existing businesses that were successful in proving hypotheses that are analogous to what the newstartup wants to prove.n nThe course focuses on further developing entrepreneurial skills using the same pedagogical approach used in S356: short lectures, extensive in-class exercises focused on each team's specific projects, and 'get out of the building' assignments. Teams will have the opportunity to:nn- Get out of the building and interact with users, advisors, investors and partners to develop a deep understanding of the challenges they face, to field test their proposed services, products, and business models, and to gather data.nn- Interpret the data and make important startup decisions in the context of their own project: pivot, persevere, or perishnn- Develop creative go-to-market strategies and test their effectivenessnn- Develop and deliver in front of real investors an investor pitch, elevator pitch and executive summarynn- Negotiate term sheets with venture investorsnn- Develop a hiring plan for their first year of operation and consider equity and other compensation plan
STRAMGT368 | Strategic Management of Nonprofit Organizations and Social Ventures | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT368 | instructors:Meehan, B. (PI) description:This course seeks to provide a survey of the strategic, governance, and management issues facing a wide range of nonprofit organizations and their executive and board leaders, in the era of venture philanthropy and social entrepreneurship. The students will also be introduced to core managerial issues uniquely defined by this sector such as development/fundraising, investment management, performance management and nonprofit finance. The course also provides an overview of the sector, including its history and economics. Cases involve a range of nonprofits, from smaller, social entrepreneurial to larger, more traditional organizations, including education, social service, environment, health care, religion, NGO's and performing arts. In exploring these issues, this course reinforces the frameworks and concepts of strategic management introduced in the core first year courses. In addition to case discussions, the course employs role plays, study group exercises and many outsider speakers.
STRAMGT371 | Strategic Management of Technology and Innovation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT371 | instructors:Burgelman, R. (PI); Siegel, R. (SI); Moore, N. (GP) description:This course focuses on the strategic management of technology-based innovation in the firm. The purpose is to provide students with concepts, frameworks, and experiences that are useful for taking part in the management of innovation processes in the firm. The course examines how they can be managed effectively. Specific topics include: assessing the innovative capabilities of the firm, managing the Corporate R & D function, managing the interfaces between functional groups in the development function in the firm, understanding and managing technical entrepreneurs, building technology-based distinctive competencies and competitive advantages, technological leadership versus followership in competitive strategy, institutionalizing innovation, attracting and keeping corporate entrepreneurs.
STRAMGT376 | Entrepreneur Leader-Identity Development: A Critical-Incident Approach | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT376 | instructors:Bristol, S. (PI) description:Entrepreneurship can be an exhaustive experience. This course is structured to provide valuable skills and strategies aimed at enabling aspiring entrepreneurs to mitigate personal burnout while in pursuit of new ventures. In terms of this course, an entrepreneur is defined as a person who risks mobilizing resources to capitalize on a perceived opportunity of value-creation-change. A "social entrepreneur" creates social value, a "business entrepreneur" creates profit, and a 'hybrid entrepreneur' blends the two. This course will tailor student's class work to fit his or her entrepreneurial orientation. Students who opt to focus their coursework on social or environmental entrepreneurship may petition to have this course count toward the Certificate in Public Management and Social Innovation.  nnResearch is showing that a significant career hazard of entrepreneurship is emotional burnout- exhaustion from raising capital, growing new teams, competing with established players, and more contributes to the challenges of entrepreneurship. The goal of this course is to teach students how to identify and develop an increased capacity in emotional resilience as a means of mitigating burnout in oneself and in the diverse "community of actors" one is attempting to mobilize into concerted action aimed at value-creation-change. Research is also showing that one of the key causes of chronic stress is leader-identity development: when men and women of diverse-identities - different from the dominant-identity, engage in value-creation-change within a given community of practice and context, chronic adversity is a given. The effort of diverse-identities to lead value-creation-change introduces a chronic re-evaluation and re-definition of 'leader' within the given culture. From a global perspective this chronic adversity dynamic is especially true for women leaders. For men and women of diverse-identity, this dynamic is a consequence of power inequity. Both the diverse-identity and dominant-identity leader need to strategically anticipate and proactively address this dynamic in order to sustain his or her role as an agent of value-creation-change.nnUsing the "critical-incident empathetic-inquiry" approach students will interview aspiring and practicing entrepreneurs on how they successfully recovered from, adapted to, and sustained perseverance in the face of situational and chronic adversity. These interviews will be recorded and analyzed from both a content and emotional decision-making perspective. Particular attention will be paid to how the practice of "empathetic-inquiry" in itself is a learnable micro-intervention with the potential of alleviating stress, supporting recovery, and sustaining effort. It is presented, taught, and practiced as a fundamental "emotional literacy" entrepreneur leadership skill.nnFrom a diversity perspective, students will also be exploring how unsupported leader-identity development within a given cultural context and community of practice can be a major cause of stress and burnout. Via the "critical-incident empathetic inquiry" process students will focus on interviewing and learning from "exemplars" with whom they identify, with the aim of learning from "exemplar's" personal leader-identity journey.nnThis course enables students to be practitioners of "empathetic inquiry" in entrepreneurial contexts in order to provide an added advantage to GSB students pursuing entrepreneurship after graduation and beyond.
STRAMGT381 | Leading Strategic Change in the Health Care Industry | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT381 | instructors:Burgelman, R. (PI); Moore, N. (GP); Pearl, R. (SI) description:This seminar provides the opportunity for students to study the structure and dynamics of the U.S. health care industry, and some of the ways it intersects with the global health care industry. The U.S. health care industry represents over 15 percent of the nation's GDP and is rapidly changing as a result of government regulatory reform enacted in 2010. The seminar's aim is to develop participants' ability to create strategically informed action plans that are imaginative, inspiring and workable in this highly dynamic environment. The seminar's pedagogy involves informed debate to evaluate and hone well-researched views by the participants and instructors, as well as the writing and presentation of position papers by small groups of seminar participants on the key dynamics of the industry. In the course of the seminar discussions, we aim to deepen our understanding of strategic dynamics and transformational change at the societal, industry and organizational levels of analysis. After developing a complete picture of the structure of the health care industry and the strategic relationships among the key players - the strategic landscape -, the seminar will focus on how health care reform and other external forces will affect the strategic opportunities and challenges of four types of players in the strategic landscape: (1) Incumbents (e.g., pharmaceutical companies, hospital companies, insurance companies); (2) entrepreneurial startups (e.g., home monitoring, genetic testing companies, information services); (3) cross-boundary disruptors (e.g., health clinics, Wal-Mart, Cisco, Google); and (4) international health care providers (e.g. in Mexico, India, Thailand) Four student teams will be formed to focus on one of the four types of players. Each team will prepare a research paper focused on determining how their type of player can take advantage of the regulatory, technological, social, cultural and demographic changes, and who will be the likely winners and why. During the first round of discussions (sessions 2-5) all participants will take part in examining the different parts of the competitive landscape. During the second round (sessions 6-9), the different teams will present their research findings and perspectives about the strategic opportunities and threats which exist. As part of the second set of sessions, the instructors will bring in domain experts to further augment the discussion.
STRAMGT512 | The Yin and Yang of Family Business Transitions | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT512 | instructors:Francis, P. (PI); Smith, J. (GP) description:This seminar provides students with practical solutions to some of the challenges faced in family business transitions.nnFamily businesses are by far the dominant form of commerce world-wide, albeit the majority are small "mom and pop shops." Some research shows that large businesses, whatever the form of ownership, have an average lifespan of around forty years, while small businesses (at least in Japan and Europe) average around twelve years. So, if businesses in general do not survive, then it is a wonder that any family business can survive from one generation to another, let alone two, three, four or more.nnThere are three essential requirements to succeed in a family business transition. First, it may seem obvious that the business must succeed, but it is less obvious what advantages a family business has over its non-family-owned counterparts. Second, the ownership structure must effectively maintain family cohesion and support the business. Finally, family members need to organize in thoughtful ways to work effectively with one another.nnThe beauty of a family business is that it can be more profitable than companies with non-family ownership. Two fundamentals, at least, provide this advantage - a strong value system and a long-term economic perspective. The operative word above, however, is "can"; it is by no means a foregone conclusion that a family business will be more successful. Families must thoughtfully develop their advantages, while at the same time avoiding the pitfalls that are inherent in any family business.nnAccordingly, this course is offered for students whose families own a family business or who are interested in the special challenges faced by family businesses. International students are encouraged to register as different cultural perspectives to family business will enrich the experience for everyone. Particular focus will be given to the transitions from one generation to another and the lessons learned that can be applied during the entire life of the business.
STRAMGT514 | The Improvisational Entrepreneur | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT514 | instructors:Wheeler, S. (PI); Gallardo, D. (GP) description:Improvisational acting (i.e., improv) requires fast, flexible, and creative thinking; intense listening and effective self-presentation; and the ability to act without fear of failure.  These skills are also vital for being a successful entrepreneur.  In this class, you will learn techniques of improvisational acting that can transform your thinking about business and your approach to life.
STRAMGT516 | Fundamentals of Effective Selling | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT516 | instructors:Rhein, B. (PI); Gallardo, D. (GP) description:The primary objective of this course is to introduce students to the fundamentals of how to sell and to what selling is truly about. The course is appropriate for anyone who wants to understand and show proficiency with the skills required by different selling situations (e.g., direct sales of products and services, selling oneself in an interview, raising money for a new venture, running a company as CEO, etc.). The course looks at the entire selling process of lead generation, prospecting, qualifying, discovery, understanding and selling value, customizing presentations, objection handling, negotiation and closing, and demonstrates how curiosity plays a critical role in every stage of the process. This is not a typical GSB case-study-based course. Students who have taken the class describe it as a hands-on, skill-based class.  As students in this class, you will work together in groups outside of class to complete team-based exercises designed to introduce you to selling fundamentals in each stage of the selling process. You will be practicing and utilizing newly learned skills in real life each week; there will be lots of repetition.  You will then come together in class with the instructors to share and process the learning from these exercises.
STRAMGT517 | Topics in Digital Business | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT517 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:This class will guide students through in-depth research projects focusing on specific case studies of digital businesses, where students select topics individually or in teams.  The research projects must be framed using principles from economics and strategy.  The course will review conceptual frameworks from the economics of platform markets, such as economies of scale, network effects, entry strategies for new businesses as well as defensive strategies by incumbents.  Possible topics include financial technology, virtual currency, internet marketplaces, the sharing economy, online advertising and advertising technology, big data, and analytics.
STRAMGT527 | Product Entrepreneuring | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT527 | instructors:Goldberg, A. (PI); Pincus, M. (SI) description:What distinguishes conventional products from hits? The class builds a framework for taking instincts through to idea phase and finally to creation of breakthrough products in creative and online markets. It will begin by dissecting the mechanics of successful video game design, which will then be extended to broader application in the launch of consumer products in a variety of markets and contexts. The objective is to systematically analyze the DNA of a hit product, from product design and testing through to post launch challenges and rapid scaling. We will focus on product attributes as they relate to consumers, organizational challenges, intermediators and, more broadly, the strategic competitive environment.
STRAMGT531 | Venture Capital and Innovation | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT531 | instructors:Strebulaev, I. (PI); Berg, S. (GP) description:In this course, we will investigate to what extent venture capital (in the U.S. elsewhere) fosters innovation as well as how other types of financing can drive or hinder innovation. Our discussion will be based on most recent academic and industry empirical evidence, as well as illustrative case studies. We will start with discussing venture capital as an industry, explain the organizational structure of venture capital firms as well as incentives of different players in the industry. We then explore in more detail how we can measure innovation and the relationship between VC industry and innovation activity.
STRAMGT532 | Intellectual Property: Financial and Strategic Management | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT532 | instructors:Kasznik, E. (PI) description:In today'€™s competitive marketplace, companies -- from Fortune 500 firms to early stage start-ups -- rely on intellectual property (IP) to keep them one step ahead of the game. The role of IP as a strategic business asset has been punctuated by the recent multi-billion dollar deals and acquisitions involving patent portfolios, as well as the fierce Mobile market patent wars raging in courts around the world.  This class will explore the value of corporate IP assets by thinking strategically about how to effectively leverage the knowledge, trade secrets, patents, technologies, trademarks, structures and processes that are critical across industries. We will focus on the elements of a successful IP strategy, and how that strategy is shaped by economic, strategic, legal, regulatory, and market factors. Through a combination of case studies, class discussion and guest speakers, we will cover a variety of issues shaping a successful IP strategy in today'€™s global business environment. Some of the topics we will cover include: * Building and managing an IP portfolio that is aligned with business objectives; * The innovation cycle and technology transfer mechanisms; * IP portfolio monetization strategies (e.g., licensing, sale, enforcement); * IP considerations in Mergers & Acquisitions; * Tax planning related to IP (e.g., cross border transfer pricing, IP holding companies); * Managing corporate IP litigation risk; * Patent reform and the role of the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO); * IP rights challenges while doing business in developing countries; * IP strategies for start-ups & entrepreneurs. Ms. Efrat Kasznik is an IP valuation and strategy expert with more than twenty years of experience advising companies of all sizes, from startups to Fortune 100s, on extracting value from their IP. She is the founder and President of Foresight Valuation Group, an IP consulting and startup advisory firm providing valuation and strategy services for a range of purposes, including M&A, financial reporting, technology commercialization decisions, tax compliance, transfer pricing, and litigation damages. Ms. Kasznik has been a co-founder, CFO and advisor to several startups and incubators in the US and Europe, including the Stanford Venture Studio at the GSB. She is listed on the IAM 300 list of World Leading IP Strategists, and is a member of the leadership committee of the High Tech Sector, Licensing Executives Society.
STRAMGT533 | Strategizing in Creative Industries | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT533 | instructors:Goldberg, A. (PI) description:Creative success is highly unpredictable; but creativity is increasingly becoming a source of competitive advantage in a variety of markets, from music and film, to new media, video games and software. Creative competitiveness brings with it a set of unique strategic challenges. How do you anticipate market reaction when there are no agreed-upon criteria for evaluating quality? How are barriers to entry retained, or overcome, in industries pervaded by reputation and status? How can creative talent be managed effectively under such circumstances? And what are the strategic implications of emerging digital technologies on the dynamics of creative markets?nnThis course is intended for students interested in understanding these issues, especially from the point of view of new entrants. It focuses primarily, though not exclusively, on the intersection between traditional creative markets such as music and film, and digital technology. We will explore recent cases of innovative startups on the forefront of digital media; of companies intermediating between producers and consumers such as social movie services and online radio; and on the strategic analysis of creative markets. In particular, we will explore insights from recent research on consumer taste and how identity impacts success in creative domains.
STRAMGT535 | Entrepreneurial Approaches to Education Reform | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT535 | instructors:Lee, G. (PI) description:This course will investigate the ways in which entrepreneurs have and could transform K-12 public schooling in the United States, a $650 billion dollar industry that has a direct and long-term effect on nation's economy, democracy and culture. We will explore how human capital solutions, new schools, and technology products can all dramatically improve student learning and solve pain points. We will study a variety of ways to evaluate the efficacy, scalability, and financial sustainability of entrepreneurial enterprises serving students, families, educators and administrators in public education. The course will feature for-profit, not-for-profit, as well as double-bottom-line organizations. This course is suitable for students aspiring to be entrepreneurs, leaders in entrepreneurial organizations, leaders in educational organizations, donors or investors. Gloria Lee is a serial education entrepreneur who co-founded Aspire Public Schools, Teaching Channel, and Yu Ming Charter School. She is currently Chief Operating Officer at NewSchools Venture Fund.
STRAMGT536 | The Startup Garage: The China Version | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT536 | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Price, R. (GP); Woo, Y. (GP) description:A condensed version of Startup Garage focused on exploring entrepreneurial opportunities in China. Stanford teams will work jointly with students at the Graduate School of Management at our partner, Peking University (PKU). The teams'€™ goals will be to identify a business startup model that has been successful in the US and explore how to modify and transplant that model for the Chinese market. We will be meeting in our immersive classroom at the GSB, and we will connect with our partners at their classroom in the Stanford Center at Peking University.nnThe course will begin with a workshop that introduces the key concepts taught at Startup Garage: empathy, ideating, prototyping and testing of the complete business model. Teams will apply in a rapid fashion all steps of the Startup Garage process to their business idea. Because a central element of the Startup Garage is to get out of the building, the partnership with PKU will enable the teams at Stanford to have access to on the ground, out-of-the-building, real time information. The process will culminate into a short presentation summarizing each team'€™s assessment about the viability of the business idea and immediate next steps. At the end of the course, teams who wish to continue exploring their business idea can join the fall quarter version of Startup Garage and maintain their collaboration with their PKU team. Teams will be formed within the course, and they will be advised by our network of Startup Garage advisors, which includes investors with experience in the Chinese market, as well as advisors and faculty from PKU.nnInstructor: Stefanos ZeniosnStefanos Zenios is a professor at the GSB and the director of the Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. He is the lead architect of Startup Garage, an experiential second year elective in which teams of students explore new business ideas by using a combination of design thinking and lean startup tools. He is continuously exploring ways to apply the Startup Garage process to different entrepreneurial challenges, including the challenge of exploring entrepreneurial opportunities in emerging economies.
STRAMGT537 | Leading Change in Public Education | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT537 | instructors:Katzir, D. (PI); Bagalso, R. (GP); Gallardo, D. (GP); Haga, M. (GP) description:Public education in America is at a crossroads.  Does our education system have what it takes to produce graduates who are prepared for college, career, and citizenship in our increasingly digital and pluralistic world?  Will income and ethnic achievement gaps continue to be pervasive and persistent in our nation's largest urban cities? Will family zip code determine educational destiny for the next generation of students?  How will technological advances that have disrupted so many other sectors affect American public education?  Which strategies and reforms are truly demonstrating results and which are merely passing fads?nnAs in all large-scale enterprises undergoing rapid, transformative change, leadership matters greatly.  Fortunately, over the last decade, the reform of American public education has been led by a number of innovative and results-oriented leaders at the state, district and charter levels.  These leaders are bringing additional urgency, strategies, and ideas designed to prepare America's schools and her students for the century ahead.  Some ideas are proving to be critical levers for change, others are facing significant political challenges, and others have not delivered on expected results.  Many of them hold lessons for how future educational leaders can contribute to transforming public education for the next generation of K-12 students.  nnThis course will focus on school system leadership for education reform. The course will provide an overview of the critical issues facing K-12 public education in America today, and what is going on across the U.S. during this transformative period of change.  Once this context is set, students will study education leaders and systems change strategies from the last 10-15 years at the state, district and charter levels.  We will focus on leaders across five domains: Leadership in crisis situations, strategic leadership, "china-breaking" leadership, sustaining leadership, and next generation leadership.  We will also look at leadership examples from outside K-12 education to broaden our thinking about what leadership styles and strategies could be effective here.  Students will debate the strategies and efficacy of how different leaders approached systems-level change and will form their own working hypotheses of what is needed to help transform the American education system.  nnCase studies in school system leadership will form the primary basis for classroom assignments and discussion.  We will examine what went right and what went wrong in each case, focusing particularly on the decisions that school system leaders faced and the implications of their decisions.  Most cases will be supplemented with research publications, technical notes, news clips, and/or videos to deepen the students' understanding of the context or issues discussed in the cases.  nnDan Katzir worked for Bain & Company, Teach for America and Sylvan Learning Systems before joining The Broad Foundation as its founding managing director.  He is an experienced case study teacher and the editor of "The Redesign of Urban School Systems" (Harvard University Press, 2013). nnPlease note that for two of the nine weeks, this course will meet on Wednesday instead of Monday:n-	Wednesday, May 20 (instead of Monday, May 18)n-	Wednesday, May 27 (instead of Monday, May 25, which is Memorial Day)
STRAMGT538 | Financial Technologies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT538 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:This class will provide an overview of the rapidly evolving world of financial technologies. New market entrants are promising to change the way we borrow, save, invest, and transact.  Incumbents enjoy substantial market power but are struggling to keep up technologically as they wrestle with antiquated core infrastructure.  We will analyze the emerging competitive landscape and the strategic dynamics in play.  The class will begin with a short review of digital platform economics in which we will cover basic concepts such as network effects and economies of scale.  We will then dive into a series of case studies and industry analyses.  Particular attention will be paid to the areas of payments, alternative credit, and virtual currencies.
STRAMGT542 | Entrepreneurial Investing in Health Care | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT542 | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Price, R. (GP); Woo, Y. (GP) description:Investing in the healthcare sector is fraught with idiosyncratic challenges. First, the sector is very diverse and it spans biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, diagnostics, health care information technology, and health care services. Second, business models are evolving: business-to-business, business-to-physician, Business-to-patient, Business-to-business-to-patient, Business-to-business-to-physician, etc. Third, the sector is exposed to strong nonmarket forces: regulatory and reimbursement which are important elements to one's investment thesis. These challenges are amplified when investments focus on either early stage private ventures, or small capitalization public companies. Yet the possible returns for early stage and small cap investors are significant: fledgling healthcare companies can grow to multibillion business and can have a long and lasting impact on people's life and wellbeing. Topics to examine in the seminar includen- Investment criteria that investors use to screen investment opportunities in this sector. Specific issues in biotech, medical devices, and services will be addressed.n- How early stage ventures evolve as they mature and how the investment criteria change with the stage of the company.n- How the investors change with the stage of the company: venture capitalists, private equity, public markets.nWe will examine these topics through a combination of guest presentations, lectures, and practical applications to real investment opportunities.nnTentative List of Speakers: Mike Kaplan (MMC Health Services); Noah Knauf (Warburg PincusnHealth Care Group); Oleg Nodelman (EcoR1 -Capital value-oriented biotech investment fund);nTom McKinley (Cardinal Partners); Peter Ehrich (Crassey & Co); David Kim (Ghost TreenCapital); Marc Galetting (Longitude Capital); Anne DeGheest (Health Teach Capital)nnInstructor: Stefanos ZeniosnStefanos Zenios is a professor at the GSB and an expert on health care systems and the on innovation processes. He has completed a study in which he has developed a datadriven methodology that can be used by investors to identify predictors of success in early stage ventures. He will share his research findings with the class.
STRAMGT543 | Entrepreneurial Acquisition | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT543 | instructors:Dodson, D. (PI); Woo, Y. (GP); Kelly, P. (SI) description:For aspiring entrepreneurs who don't have a burning idea or desire to start a company from scratch, acquiring a small business can provide a direct route to running and growing a business. This class will explore entrepreneurial acquisition (EA).  As the course covers topics such as what makes a good industry, raising capital, how to source deals, dealing with investors, due diligence, and negotiation, the course is also applicable to those interested in private equity, venture capital, start-ups, and general management.  The class relies heavily on the case method, and each class includes guests (often the case protagonists) who bring practical and current experience to the classroom.  The two group projects are intended to be highly practical, simulating real-world situations.  Professors Dodson and Kelly each have over 20 years of experience in the subject matter.
STRAMGT544 | Scaling Excellence | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT544 | instructors:Rao, H. (PI); Narayen, S. (SI) description:The premise of the course is that managers are concerned with how to scale excellence in organizations and that scaling skills are essential for any leadership role. It will be taught with Shantanu Narayen, the CEO of Adobe.  The course is designed to appeal to a wide range of audiences: students seeking to build new organizations, or turn around poorly performing organizations, or grow existing organizations to greater heights. We will focus on how to transform the footprint of a firm, and yet, not lose the mindset. Executives also need to think about to spread 'good behaviors' and make them widespread very quickly, and conversely, on how to shrink bad behaviors and make them small very quickly.  This course aims to train students into becoming effective leaders of organizational change.  We will use a mix of cases written specially for the course, and 'live cases' with guest speakers from the C-Suite
STRAMGT545 | Ensuring Social Innovation Scales: Across Borders, Across Sectors, and Across "the Valley of Death" | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT545 | instructors:Davis, S. (PI) description:The world has made great progress in addressing some of the globe'€™s challenges, but we have much more to do -€“ only possible by developing and scaling new technological and social science interventions.  Over the past three decades, we have applauded many breakthrough research, design and technology innovations, and more recently we have witnessed an encouraging commitment to strengthen health, education, finance and other systems to support reaching "the last mile"€ of development.  With this barbell approach, however, we have often ignored, misunderstood and under-invested in the critical, tough and unsexy challenges crossing the middle of the value chain -- innovation's valley of death:  product and system adaptation and evaluation; evidence generation and design validation; formal or informal regulatory approval and registration; and the appropriate design, introduction and optimization of the intervention'€™s uptake of before markets, governments or other systems can truly take them to scale.  This class will use an inter-disciplinary approach to look at variety of economic, scientific, and systemic factors that pull innovation forward, that push it from behind, and often to the world''s detriment block its successful implementation and scaling.  Grounding the work on both traditional and emerging research and theories on social change and development, we would apply real world experiences and several important case studies in order to examine the way good ideas get stuck advancing to real solutions, and how innovations fail to scale to make any meaningful impact on outcomes that matter.  We will also examine the root causes for these challenges.  More important, we will focus on innovations and methodologies that have overcome these barriers, where we have witnessed both simple and complex innovations reach literally millions or even billions of lives.  The seminar will involve a combination of lectures, case studies, visiting lecturers, and a project tackling a particular aspect of a specific problem.  While the aperture on innovation theory would be quite wide across multiple sectors and models, the focused case examples would be derived from global health innovations.  Our goal is to help the next generation of social innovation leaders think more about some of the mistakes of the past, and lessons for the future, and new ways of approaching old problems, all from a practitioner'€'s point of view.
STRAMGT546 | Small Business Strategy | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT546 | instructors:Oyer, P. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:This course will develop Business Strategy frameworks, some of which will be familiar from the core Strategy class and others of which will be new, and apply them to small businesses. Some of the businesses we will look at will be established businesses that will always be small, others will be family businesses, and some will be start-ups that hope to scale. Each session, we will spend some time developing frameworks based on required reading. Then we will analyze individual companies using a combination of written case studies, video and audio excerpts of interviews with small business owners, and guest speakers (or, if feasible, company visits). Issues we will consider include:n- What makes a business scalable?n- When are barriers to entry feasible and sustainable?n- How can a firm differentiate itself? How might that limit growth?n- What can small firms do effectively that large organizations cannot?n- How do organizational issues such as incentives, hiring, and delegation limit growth and/or create advantages for small companies?nnGrades will be based on class participation, a short written assignment applying concepts from the class, and a take-home exam.nnFor background on the instructor's small business strategy project, see http://www.roadside-mba.com/.
STRAMGT547 | Entrepreneurial Opportunities in Developing Economies | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT547 | instructors:Antoni, F. (PI); Ciesinski, S. (SI); Rosen, H. (SI); Woo, Y. (GP) description:As technology-driven ventures are having more and more impact, entrepreneurial ecosystems have been developing in recent years around the developing world. Following the lead of Silicon Valley, the most developed and sophisticated ecosystem of all, these newly formed industry networks that include universities, incubators and accelerator programs, angel investor networks and venture capital firms can now support local entrepreneurs and innovation better than ever before. As developing economies grow and get more sophisticated, entrepreneurial opportunities arise across markets and industries. Despite this fertile ground for new endeavors, entrepreneurs face particular challenges and risks that they would not encounter in Silicon Valley.nn
STRAMGT555 | Managing Growing Enterprises | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT555 | instructors:Dodson, D. (PI); Rosenthal, S. (GP); Woo, Y. (GP); Ellis, J. (SI) description:This seminar is offered for students who, in the near term, aspire to the management and full or partial ownership of a new or newly acquired business. The seminar will deal in some depth with certain selected, generic entrepreneurial issues, viewed from the perspective of the owner/manager. Broad utilization will be made of case materials, background readings, visiting experts, and role playing. Throughout the course, emphasis will be placed on the application of analytical tools to administrative practice. This course is a condensed version of the four unit sections (S355) of the same course title. The course prioritizes the material from S355, covering much of the same material, but not to the depth covered in the four unit sections.
STRAMGT556 | Venture Studio for Credit | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT556 | instructors:Zenios, S. (PI); Wood, D. (SI); Woo, Y. (GP); Galen, D. (SI); Glickman, M. (SI) description:Venture Studio for Credit, offered by the Stanford Graduate School of Business, is a project-based course in which students apply the concepts of design thinking, engineering, finance, business and organizational skills to design and test new business concepts that address real world needs. Our aspiration is to help teams identify an unmet customer need, design new products or services that meet that need and develop business models to support the creation and launch of startup products or services. Students will learn critical techniques about starting and launching a venture.  This skills set is applicable to intrapreneurship as well.nnTeams will work one-on-one with an instructor and staff coach each week to help them navigate the Startup Garage innovation process.  Teams are invited to move through the innovation process at their own pace.  Instructors and coaches help ensure teams capture key learning and skills and apply them to their project.  By the end of the course you and your team will have developed, prototyped and tested a novel product or service and business model.nnS556 - Venture Studio for Credit:  DesignnnCollaborative, multi-disciplinary teams will identify and work with users, domain experts, and industry participants to identify and deeply understand customer needs and design products/services and a business model to address those needs. Each team will conceive, design, build, and field-test critical aspects of both the product or service and the business model. This course integrates methods from human-centered design, lean startup, and business model planning. The course focuses on developing entrepreneurial skills and applying those skills to specific problems faced by those users identified by the teams. Teams will get out of the building and interact directly with users to develop a deep understanding of the challenges they face and to field test their proposed services, products, and business models.
STRAMGT573 | Strategic Thinking in Action - In Business & Beyond: Evolution of the Global Semiconductor Industry | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT573 | instructors:Burgelman, R. (PI); Cogan, G. (SI); Moore, N. (GP) description:This six-session 2-point Bass seminar will involve students (maximum 20) in analyzing the evolution of the global semiconductor industry in light of the convergence of computing and wireless communications, and how it has been and will be affected by strategic actions of entrepreneurial startups, incumbent corporations, and governments in multiple geographies. The purpose of the seminar is to help students sharpen their skills at the intersection of business strategy and technology strategy in order to more effectively lead strategic change in and of large complex systems. While the instructors will provide relevant pre- readings, students will be expected to complement these materials with their own research of theoretical and empirical sources. Class discussions will focus on several topics: 1) the converging computing and wireless communications industries;(2) The future growth of key market segments of the semiconductor industry; (3) The prospects of different technologies and architectures going forward; and, (4) The future structure of the semiconductor industry. Students will be expected to help structure the discussion and move it forward toward conclusions. Students will organize into teams each focused on one of the topics and prepare a five-to-ten page group report of their most important findings and conclusions that extend current knowledge.
STRAMGT574 | Strategic Thinking in Action - In Business and Beyond (II) | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT574 | instructors:Burgelman, R. (PI); Beiker, S. (SI); Moore, N. (GP) description:This five-session 2-point Bass seminar will involve students (maximum 18) in analyzing the emerging global electric automotive industry by focusing on: (1) The electric automotive industry in the U.S. and Europe, (2) the electric automotive industry in Japan and Korea, and (3) the electric automotive industry in China.  We will each time examine the strategies of the key automotive companies as well as that of the government and other key players such as infrastructure providers. The purpose of the seminar is to help students sharpen their skills in identifying facilitating and impeding forces of strategic change, and in assessing and estimating the direction and rate of strategic change. While the instructors will provide relevant pre- readings related to these topics, students will be expected to complement these materials with their own research of theoretical and empirical sources. They will also be expected to help structure the discussion and move it forward toward conclusions.  Students will organize into three teams each focused on one of the regions and prepare a five-to-ten page group report of their most important findings and conclusions that extend current knowledge.
STRAMGT583 | The Challenges in/with China | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT583 | instructors:de Bettignies, H. (PI) description:To general objective of the course is to develop a solid grasp of the socio-economic and political situation in China (with its challenges both for China and for the rest of the world) in order to be able to define sustainable strategies for managing effectively in China and for handling the growing interdependence between China and the rest of the world. From looking at the performance of China - as perceived in US, Europe and emerging markets - students will get an insight in the current complex dynamics of China development (without the hype and with realism) and discuss alternative scenarios, with their business and socio-political consequences on the medium term. From this analysis and with a prospective perspective in mind, we will explore alternative strategic business approaches and management practices required to build, overtime, a mutually rewarding growing inter-dependence. More specifically, the course will initially identify the multi-causality behind China's achievements and discuss some of the dysfunctions associated, today, with such performance. The conditions of management effectiveness required to enter and succeed in the Chinese market will be identified while the challenges faced by the global expansion of Chinese firms overseas will be illustrated. Corporate governance issues, societal changes in China will be discussed in order to understand the context in which alternative scenarios for the future of China can be built. The course will rely upon different pedagogical methods; it will create conditions to share and leverage students' experience and it will make use of a number of recent cases and research results. Auditors will be admitted (pending space), but they will have to be present (and prepared) in all the sessions.
STRAMGT584 | New Business Models in Emerging Markets | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT584 | instructors:Bannick, M. (PI); Shaker, S. (GP) description:In recent years, we've seen an explosion of innovative business models blazing new trails in emerging markets. Many of these models are achieving commercial success while transforming the lives of low-income populations. Using nine cases of both early-stage, entrepreneur-led ventures and later-stage, public or large-cap firms, this course will examine best practices for scaling new enterprises in emerging markets. It will do so primarily through the lens of a potential investor. It will also explore what is required to spark, nurture and scale entire sectors that serve rapidly growing, often low-income markets. What does it mean to work in markets with limited infrastructure? What common mistakes are made - whether in business model design, in supply chains, or in dealing with government - and how can we avoid them? Which are the best business models to serve markets that corporations have traditionally ignored, and in which government has failed to deliver? Who might be threatened by the success of these new businesses? The seminar is a good match for Stanford students interested in working or investing in emerging markets. It will be taught by Matt Bannick, who leads Omidyar Network (a $744m impact investing fund) and is the former President of eBay International and of PayPal.
STRAMGT588 | Leading Organizations | https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?q=STRAMGT588 | instructors:Athey, S. (PI); Ballmer, S. (SI); Longinidis, K. (GP) description:This course studies principles for leading organizations and creating business value from the perspective of a high-level executive.  Topics include product development, business models and pricing, people management, time allocation, measurement and accountability, creative destruction, the development of new capabilities, and marketing.
